A Practitioner's Guide to the Most Common Terms in Commercial Real Estate created by   A.CRE
CRE Glossary of Terms – 1 st   Edition  Published by: www.adventuresincre.com, LLC  www.AdventuresinCRE.com  Copyright © 2022 by www.adventuresincre.com, LLC  All rights reserved. No portion of this book may be reproduced  in any form without permission from the publisher, except  as permitted by U.S. copyright law. For permissions contact:  admin@adventuresincre.com  Cover and book design by Nela Nikolovska and Ana Secivanovic  ISBN: 979-8-9868731-0-7  Printed in United States of America  1 st   Edition
The online resource for commercial real  estate professionals worldwide, including  real estate financial models and training,  career advice, CRE education insights,  and networking opportunities.  A.CJE www.AdventureslnCRE.com  I)   SCAN   ME

1 Glossary of Terms  1 031 Exchange  A   common   real   estate   practice   with   origins   in  the IRS code section 1031, which allows investors to  essentially swap one property for another in an effort to  defer capital gains taxes. The two properties must be  "like-kind" properties and used in a trade or business as  an investment. 1031 exchanges must meet multiple other  requirements. If executed successfully, however, investors  can save large amounts via deferred capital gains taxes,  which helps spur ongoing investment.  A bsorption  See net absorption and gross absorption.  A.CRE  An acronym for the website www.adventuresincre.com,  pronounced "A-C-R-E."  Acre  A unit of land that equals 43,560 square feet, or 4046.85642  square meters.  Acuity Spectrum  A range of care which encompasses the categories within  senior living. The continuum typically ranges (in order  of increasing acuity) from independent living to assisted  living to memory care to nursing care.  -
2 Glossary of Terms  Adaptive Reuse  A   repositioning   strategy   in   real   estate   whereby   the  investor converts the use and/or design of an existing  building into something new. Typical scenarios include  the   conversion   of   industrial   building,   schools   and  churches into other building types such as residences,  museums or art galleries.  Add Alternate  An   additional   item   of   work   that   is   priced   out   by   a  consultant/subcontractor during the contract negotiation  or bid process, but which is not yet part of the scope of  work. It is an item that an owner is considering adding  to the consultant's/subcontractor’s contract, but which  has not yet been confirmed as to whether the service  is wanted. As a result, the owner would like to know/  negotiate the price for this item in the case they decide to  move forward with it post contract agreement.  Example: The owner of a multifamily residential project  is hiring an interior designer to do the layouts for five  different floor plans. The owner is also considering having  the interior designer do the penthouse as well. Although  not currently part of the scope, the owner wants to know/  negotiate   the   price   for   designing   the   penthouse   and  requests the interior designer to include an add alternate  for designing the penthouse in case they decide to pursue  the option.
3 Glossary of Terms  Adjusted Funds from  Operations  A superior metric compared to FFO when evaluating a  REIT’s performance. AFFO is used in order to account for  any additional expenses the landlord is expected to incur  over the life of the asset (such as TIs, CAPEX, leasing  commissions etc.). The measure is calculated as follows:  AFFO = FFO – Maintenance Costs – CAPEX – Straight  Line Rent Adjustments.  Adjusted Funds from Operations is comparable to the  cash flow from operations line item used in analyzing  individual properties.  ADR  See Average Daily Rate.  Adverse Possession  Also referred to as Squatter's Rights, adverse possession  enables   a   person   living   on   or   using   someone   else's  property to legally take ownership of said property if  the original owner has abandoned and/or not claimed  ownership over a certain period of time. This law came into  effect to encourage land/property upkeep and utilization.  Adverse Possession can be determined by the mnemonic  HELUVA: Hostile, Exclusive, Lasting, Uninterrupted, Visible,  Actual . A squatter must demonstrate the following actions  in order to legally take ownership of a property:  -
4 Glossary of Terms  Hostile   -   possess   property   with   no   permission   from  original owner  Exclusive - be the only person/family to possess the  property and keep it exclusive from others  Lasting - lasts for the statutory period as set by states  Uninterrupted - continuous possession  Visible - open and notorious about possession  Actual - must actually possess the land and inhabit as  intended  Affidavit of Title  See Owner's Affidavit.  Affirmative Covenant  A type of restrictive property covenant that obligates  the   landowner   to   act.   This   covenant   runs   with   the  land, meaning that even in transfer of ownership, the  obligation remains with the new landowner. An example  of an affirmative covenant may be an obligation for the  landowner to maintain a certain level and type of insurance  or to maintain the property at a certain standard.  AFFO  See Adjusted Funds from Operations.  Age-restricted Community  In commercial real estate, this typically refers to a restriction  on residential communities, where residents must be a  certain age or older, often 55+. Investors often see these  communities to have an advantage based on residents
5 Glossary of Terms  having surpassed periods in life with conflict (such as  divorce or income difficulties), where residents may have  also downsized from traditional housing and have more  steady income (either from fixed pensions or social security  payments) than demographics of all-age communities.  American-style Waterfall  A common method for distributing investment cash flow  between two or more partners. An American-Style waterfall  refers to a form of equity waterfall where the sponsor  (i.e., general partner) is eligible to receive a promote (i.e.,  carried interest) before the limited partner has received a  full return of capital and earned a preferred return. As such,  distributable cash flow during operations and distributable  cash flow at a capital event are treated differently.  While referred to as American-style, this form of real estate  partnership waterfall is common worldwide, including in  Europe. It is often preferred by general partners as it front  loads distributions to the general partner.  Architect  In commercial real estate, architects are typically present  throughout   the   entire   development   process   through  design and construction and different architects may  serve in different functions on the same project such as  design architect and architect of record. Architects lead  the design process and typically oversee the construction  of a building on behalf of the ownership and to ensure the  project is being built as intended in the design.  -
6 Glossary of Terms  Architect of Record  The architect of record is the architect or firm that creates  the   construction   documents   for   a   new   project.   The  architect of record's name will also appear on the building  permit issued for that specific building project.  Assignee  An entity that receives the rights to a property from an  assignor. A mortgagee is an example of an assignee.  Assignor  An entity that transfers the right it has to a property to a  third party. A mortgagor is an example of an assignor.  Average Daily Rate  The average revenue generated per paid occupied room  per day, calculated by dividing total room revenue by the  number of rooms sold. The ADR is commonly used in the  hospitality industry together with the RevPAR metric to  assess the property’s performance.  Average Life  Also referred to as Weighted Average Life, or WAL, the  average life of a mortgage loan refers to the number of  periods (commonly denoted in years) in which half the  time-weighted principal has been paid. Lenders use this  metric in a variety of ways, including to price the loan  (i.e., as part of the benchmark calculation to arrive at an
7 Glossary of Terms  appropriate interest rate) and to compare the risk of two  loans of similar loan maturity.  Average Rate of Return  A measure of the profitability of a real estate investment  and a type of return metric. The average rate of return is  calculated as the total net profit of an investment (total  cash inflows minus total cash outflows), divided by the  length of the investment, divided by the invested capital.  The main drawback of this return metric is that it does not  take into account the time value of money.  Average Rate of Return = Total Net Profit ÷ Investment  Period ÷ Equity Contributed  Example: An investor purchases a retail center for $1,000  all cash. The investor holds the center for 10 years during  which time the investment earns $100 each year. At the  end of the 10-year period, the investor sells the property  for $1,500. The average rate of return of this investment is:  15% = 1,500 ÷ 10 years ÷ 1,000  Axonometric  An architectural drawing that depicts an object in three  dimensions. This is commonly created by architects to  show others a more realistic depiction of a current project.  B ad Boy Carveouts  See Non-Recourse Carveouts.  -
8 Glossary of Terms  Balance Sheet Investing  When an investor uses its own funds to invest in a real  estate asset. This is in contrast to using 3rd party funds  (when referring to equity) or securitization proceeds (when  referring to debt).  Balloon Payment  The final payment on a loan. In commercial real estate, the  balloon payment is the entire outstanding balance of the  loan as of the loan maturity date. A balloon payment is  only due when the loan has not been fully amortized.  For   instance,   a   lender   extends   a   mortgage   loan   of  $10,000,000, for a term of five years, with interest-only  payments for the entire five years. The balloon payment at  loan maturity will be $10,000,000.  In another example, a lender extends a mortgage loan  of $10,000,000, for a term of 10 years, with payments  amortized over 30 years. While the loan is amortizing, it  will not be fully amortized at loan maturity (year 10) and  thus the borrower will owe a balloon payment for the  balance due.  When underwriting a perspective loan, real estate lenders  take special care to analyze the likelihood the borrower will  be able to pay off the balloon payment at maturity. They  use tools such as refinance analysis risk models to assess  whether a payoff of the balloon balance is likely.
9 Glossary of Terms  Bargain and Sale Deed  A bargain and sale deed only guarantees that the grantor  has title to the property and the right to transfer ownership  but does not guarantee that it is free of encumbrances. It  also doesn't guarantee that the title is free of any defects.  It is not uncommon for bargain and sale deeds to come  with or without covenants.  Base Year Stop  Upon lease commencement, the building owner will agree  to pay the tenant's first year expenses (a.k.a. base year  expenses) and will continue to pay the same amount in  each of the subsequent years while the tenant will pay any  additional costs above the amount realized in the base  year. So, in a base year stop scenario, the building owner's  costs for op ex is capped to the amount the he or she had  to pay in year 1. So, if year 1 expenses were $1k, and year  2 expenses were $1.5k, then the landlord would still pay  $1k in year 2 and the tenants would pay $500 difference.  Bid and Award Process  The   period   during   which   the   owner   and/or   general  contractor solicit bids from numerous subcontractors  (subs) from the trades needed to build a project. Once  the subs have responded to the bid requests, the general  contractor may request additional information or conduct  interviews and subsequently awards a contract to the  selected   group   for   each   needed   trade.   High   quality  -
10 Glossary of Terms  construction documents are crucial at this stage in order  to ensure subcontractors are able to accurately take off  material estimates and make realistic project bids.  BOMA  See Building Owners and Managers Association.  Breakeven Occupancy  The occupancy at which the effective gross income is  equal to the sum of the operating expenses plus debt  service. Breakeven occupancy is an important metric  for lenders, developers, and operators as it is the point at  which the property shifts from an operating deficit to an  operating surplus. Real estate owners will often use rent  concessions to speed the investment to breakeven.  Point at which EGI = OpEx + DS; also, the point at which  DSCR = 1.00  Example: A property has a potential gross income of  $1,000 with $500 in operating expenses and $250 in  debt service. Breakeven occupancy in this case would be  calculated as (500 + 250) ÷ 1,000 = 75%.  Breakup Fee  A fee paid to one party in a real estate transaction by a  counterparty when the counterparty backs out of the  transaction. The breakup fee is generally a percentage of  the purchase price or mortgage loan amount and is used
11 Glossary of Terms  to compensate the damaged party for time and resources  spent on the transaction.  Bridge Loan  Also referred to as a mini-perm, in real estate a bridge  loan is a short-term loan typically provided to developers  and value-add real estate investors. This loan is used to  "bridge" periods during which the property is not eligible  for permanent financing. The term of a bridge loan can  be anywhere from a few months to several years, and  generally carries a higher interest rate commensurate with  the higher risk to the lender.  Building Core  A main concrete structural component that goes the entire  vertical length of a high-rise building and houses elevators,  stairwells, and MEP vertical risers. In many cases, the  core will also house the bathrooms in non-residential  commercial buildings. Also see Core - (structural).  Building Owners and Managers  Association  Founded in 1907, the Building Owners and Managers  Association (BOMA) is an international real estate trade  organization   representing   owners   and   managers   of  commercial   real   estate.   The   organization   promotes,  provides   advocacy   and   develops   various   pertinent  research publications in support of its members. BOMA  -
12 Glossary of Terms  members span the entire property and investment type  spectrum. BOMA International is widely recognized as a  primary source of information on building management  and operations, development, leasing, building operating  costs, energy consumption patterns, local and national  building   codes,   legislation,   occupancy   statistics,  technological developments and other industry trends.  Most notably, BOMA is the go-to resource that industry  professionals work with to calculate accurate building  measurements.  Buildup Rate  An alternative method for arriving at a capitalization rate  for a real estate investment. The buildup rate is the sum of  all risks of an investment (denoted in percentage) plus the  risk-free interest rate.  For example:  Risk-Free Rate (e.g. 10-yr UST): 2.25%  +  Illiquid nature of investment: 0.75%  +  Credit risk of tenants: 1.25%  +  Inflation risk: 1.00%  +  And so forth...  =  Buildup rate: 5.25%
13 Glossary of Terms  C AM  See Common Area Maintenance.  Cap Ex  See Capital Expenditure.  Cap Rate  The Cap Rate, or Capitalization Rate, is the percentage  derived from a stabilized asset's annual NOI divided by its  purchase price.  Cap Rate = Stabilized Annual NOI ÷ Asset Value  Investors often look to cap rates that have been set in the  market to begin getting a ball park idea of what they might  pay for an asset they are looking to invest in. For example,  an investor is looking at a Class A office asset in X market.  Class A office buildings in X market have been trading  between a 5% - 6% cap rate over the past 6 months, so an  investor may look to his or her first year of projected NOI and  divide that by a cap rate of somewhere between 5% - 6%  to get an idea of the price he or she might need to pay.  Capital Expenditure  In real estate, an expenditure with a useful life greater  than one year. Referred to colloquially as CapEx, Capital  Expenditures are depreciated over their useful life (e.g.,  $100,000 expenditure with 10-year useful life = $10,000  depreciation each year for 10 years). In contrast, operating  -
14 Glossary of Terms  expenses are fully depreciated in the year they occur. In  real estate modeling, capital expenditures fall below net  operating income due to their volatile (sporadic) nature.  Carried Interest  See Promote.  Car Stacker  A   hydraulic   machine   used   to   vertically   stack   cars   in  order to maximize parking efficiency. This technology is  increasingly being used in high-density urban areas where  land costs and parking rates make implementing this  economically feasible.  Cash Sweep  The use of any free cash flow (after deducting debt service  payments) to pay down an outstanding loan balance. In  real estate, a cash sweep is often implemented by a lender  when a borrower is unable to pay off the balloon balance  upon loan maturity.  Cash-on-Cash Return  Before tax cash flow (BTCF = CFO - Debt Service) divided  by the total equity contribution to date, expressed on an  annual basis as a percentage.  Cash-on-Cash Return = Before Tax Cash Flow ÷ Total  Equity Contribution to Date  The Cash-on-Cash Return of an investment is important  when looking at stabilized cash flow on an annual basis.
15 Glossary of Terms  The Cash-on-Cash Return is typically used alongside  other return metrics such as the Equity Multiple, Internal  Rate of Return, and Free and Clear Return to appropriately  assess an investment.  Cash-out Refinance  The   process   by   which   a   borrower   takes   out   a   new  mortgage with sufficient loan proceeds to pay off the  existing mortgage plus return all or part of the borrower's  invested capital in the investment. The cash-out refinance  is sought by owners of real estate because it provides  them an opportunity to reduce their risk in the property  while simultaneously freeing up capital to invest in new  opportunities.  Catch-up Provision  A provision included in certain real estate partnership  agreements, whereby a special distribution tier is included  in the equity waterfall that allows for the general partner  (GP) to "catch up" with the limited partner's (LP) cash flow  distributions. The reason for why the general partner's  distributions might lag, or the amount that must be made  up with the "catch up" tier, depends on the terms of the  partnership structure.  Catch up provisions are most common to structures  where the limited partner receives 100% of distributions  until it achieves some preferred return requirement, at  which point the GP receives 100% of excess cash flow  -
16 Glossary of Terms  thereafter until some equitable balance between the LP  and GP distributions is achieved.  For example, imagine a limited partner contributes 100%  of required capital to a real estate venture in return for a  12% preferred return and 50% of all excess cash flows  above   that   threshold.   The   agreement   states   that   the  limited partner will receive 100% of all cash distributions  until it has earned a 12% internal rate of return, at which  point the GP receives 100% of cash distributions until both  partners have received 50% of profit distributions. Once  the GP has caught up with the LP, both partners receive  any remaining excess cash flow at a 50/50 split.  Central Business District  The central business district (CBD) is typically the center  of business and economic activity of a city. Land use  is generally more dense urban infill with various land  uses,   including   retail,   office,   hotel,   government,   and  entertainment buildings, as well as higher density housing.  CBD  See Central Business District.  CCIM  See Certified Commercial Investment Member.  CCIP  See Contractor Controlled Insurance Program.
17 Glossary of Terms  CCRC  See Continuing Care Retirement Community.  Certified Commercial  Investment Member  A commercial real estate designation issued by the CCIM  Institute.   The   abbreviation   CCIM   stands   for   Certified  Commercial Investment Member.  To earn the CCIM designation, candidates must complete  an   education   component,   demonstrate   experience   in  commercial real estate, and sit for a comprehensive exam.  The CCIM designation generally takes 1-3 years to complete.  Civil Engineer  Civil engineers are responsible for supervising the design  and   construction   of   multiple   types   of   infrastructure,  including   roads,   sewage   treatment   systems,   bridges,  waterways and multiple other projects. Civil engineers  must   ensure   that   a   project   adheres   to   all   applicable  construction laws, environmental regulations, or any other  applicable statutes.  Clawback Provision  A provision included in certain real estate partnership  agreements, whereby a special distribution tier is included  in the equity waterfall that allows for the limited partner  (LP) to “clawback” cash flow previously distributed to the  general partner (GP).  -
18 Glossary of Terms  Reasons for including the clawback provision vary but are  generally related to instances where the GP is distributed  cash flow before the LP reaches a preferred return hurdle.  In the event at the end of the venture where the LP has not  achieved some preferred return, the GP must give back  some or all distributions previously made to the GP until  such point that the LP hits its preferred return.  Cold Shell  Any building/rentable area that consists only of a bare,  unimproved shell, i.e., no interior finishes, HVAC, plumbing,  lighting, elevators etc.  Common Area Maintenance  Common Area Maintenance, commonly referred to as  CAM, is a term used in commercial real estate leases that  is meant to address the cost of building operations that  all tenants benefit from and will pay for. Tenants usually  pay a portion of CAM as determined by the negotiated  agreement, but often times it is the tenant's pro rata share.  Elements of CAM costs vary, but common CAM items may  include janitorial services, landscaping, common area  electricity, security, trash removal, and snow removal.  Community Center  ("Large Neighborhood Center")  A community center is a retail subtype distinguished for its  convenience-oriented offerings and general merchandise,
19 Glossary of Terms  wide range of clothing stores, and a higher variety of  goods than Neighborhood Centers. Off-price retailers,  supermarkets, and large-specialty discount stores are  common types of anchor tenants for this retail subtype.  The trade area is approximately 3 to 6 miles, with centers  averaging around 200,000 SF or larger.  Source: ICSC  Conceptual Design  A pre-design phase where the owner and architectural and  environmental team work together to bring shape to the  project and outline its function and form. The conceptual  design promotes an open dialogue between the architect  and the owner, with concept sketches often being used to  illustrate and communicate ideas and expectations.  Concessions  Also   referred   to   as   an   "inducement,"   any   preferential  financial treatment offered by one party to another in a  real estate transaction. In the case of a lease agreement,  a concession most often takes the form of free rent for a  period of time or an agreement by the landlord to waive  certain charges such as parking charges or pet fees.  These concessions are meant to induce the tenant to  sign the lease. Concessions are most often used during  initial lease-up (i.e., when a building first delivers) or during  tenant-friendly periods in the market cycle to maintain  rent rates.  -
20 Glossary of Terms  Construction Documents  Detailed   documents   of   the   development   project   put  together by the A&E team after the Design Development  Phase   of   the   design   process.   The   Construction  Documents (CDs) reflect the finalized building design  and   provide   specific   details   to   communicate   to   the  contractor and subcontractors how the project should be  constructed. These legally binding documents are used  during construction by all the trades and are also initially  used to obtain bids from contractors and subcontractors.  CDs, at minimum, will include numerous detailed drawings  of the project and a specifications manual.  Construction Financing  A short-term loan, typically with a floating interest rate,  issued by a lender to finance the construction of a real  estate project. The loan is paid out to the borrower in  draws as construction progresses. After construction is  complete and the property is fully leased and/or sold, the  loan is repaid using permanent loan proceeds or proceeds  from the sale of the property.  Construction-Perm Loan  Also referred to as a "Rollover Loan," a construction-  perm loan is a loan that starts off as a construction loan  and immediately converts into permanent debt financing  once construction of the project is finalized and the  property is stabilized.
21 Glossary of Terms  Construction to Permanent  Loan  See Construction-Perm Loan.  Contingency Cost  An estimated amount of money added to a construction  budget set aside by the developer and/or the contractor  in order to account for any unknown risks (added and  unexpected costs) associated with the project. These  costs are designed to cover unforeseen expenses which  are not precisely known at the time of estimate but which  the contractor expects will occur based on statistical  probabilities and personal experience.  Continuing Care Retirement  Community  A senior living community that caters to a broad category of  needs including independent and assisted living, as well as  permanent skilled nursing care. CCRC’s (also known as “life  plan” communities) typically have high occupancy levels  as they provide residents with the ability to “age in place."  Contract Rent  See also In-Place Rent.   Contract Rent is the rent being  charged and collected on existing leases at a property.  In contrast to Market Rent, contract rent is not based  on market conditions but rather is based on the lease  contract signed between the landlord and tenant.  -
22 Glossary of Terms  Contractor Controlled  Insurance Program  OCIP (Owner Controlled Insurance Program) and CCIP  (Contractor   Controlled   Insurance   Program)   are   broad  and   all-encompassing   insurance   policies   that   usually  cover, at a minimum, general liability insurance, worker’s  compensation,   and   excess   liability   insurance   for   all  contractors and subcontractors on a construction project.  An OCIP is sponsored and held by the owner, in contrast to  a CCIP, which is sponsored and held by the contractor. The  sponsor holds and is directly responsible for securing the  appropriate and required insurance coverage.  Convenience or Strip Center  This retail subtype is characterized by having a row of  stores, with on-site parking often found in the front of  the stores. Open canopies may be used to connect store  fronts of the tenants at the center. Average size may be  10,000 - 15,000 SF and larger, with a trade area of less  than 1 mile. A typical anchor for these types of centers  may be convenience stores, such as a mini mart.  Source: ICSC  Core  See Core - (investment strategy) or Core - (structural).  Core - (investment strategy)  A real estate investment strategy categorized by low risk
23 Glossary of Terms  and commensurately low, stable returns. Core investment  strategies typically involve longer hold periods, lower levels  of leverage, and higher quality assets. Core investments  are generally stabilized properties with high occupancy  rates and predictable cash flows. Investors of core real  estate investments value stable, reliable and consistent  cash flows over price appreciation.  Core - (structural)  A vertical space in a multi-story building that commonly  houses   the   elevators,   stairwells,   space   for   vertical  MEP distribution, janitorial closets, and restrooms. It is  common for buildings to have the core space in the center  of the building, but the design and development team may  sometimes elect to create a side core for various reasons  such as if a central core would create inefficient floor  plates that would not compete with the market.  Core Plus  Core   Plus   assets   are   properties   that   are   otherwise  Core   assets   (see   Core   -   (investment   strategy)),   but  with   some   component   of   risk   (opportunity)   attached  to it. It may be a high street retail building with a tenant  that takes 10% - 15% of the space vacating in 2 years  and the space needs to be upgraded and re-leased.  Or it could be an otherwise Core office tower located  a bit outside of the prime office submarket with a lease  or two that is a bit below market. A levered IRR for  this risk profile could be between around 8% to 13%.  -
24 Glossary of Terms  The four CRE Risk Profiles:  - Core  - Core Plus  - Value Add  - Opportunistic  Cost Plus Contract  A contract whereby the contractor is reimbursed for all  the construction related costs, in addition to an agreed  upon percentage of such costs covering the contractor’s  overhead and profit. These contracts are typically used  when the scope of works is unclear, however they require  additional owner supervision (in comparison to Fixed  Price Contracts) as the contractor is less incentivized to  exercise prudent cost controls.  Co-tenancy Clause  Co-tenancy clauses appear in retail leases and generally  grant the tenant reduced rent, lease termination rights, or  other privileges if other tenants, typically anchor tenants,  vacate in the shared retail center (e.g., a shopping mall or  grocery-anchored retail center). These clauses offer some  protection to the tenant if another major tenant that is the  primary draw for traffic to the center vacates.  CPI Rent Escalation  A form of contractual rent increase determined by changes  in the Consumer Price Index (CPI), a common index used  to measure inflation in the United States. Most long-term
25 Glossary of Terms  leases in commercial real estate include periodic rent  increases. These rent increases are included in leases, in  part, to ensure that the value of the lease does not diminish  over time due to inflation.  Generally, the amount or percentage of the increase is pre-  defined (e.g., $2/SF/YR, 2.5%/year, 10% every five years,  etc.). However, in some cases the landlord and tenant  agree to use the change in the Consumer Price Index to  determine the periodic increase.  So if, for instance, the lease calls for annual CPI rent  escalations, the rent due to the landlord will increase each  year by the amount that CPI increases each year.  Note that while the Consumer Price Index is administered  by the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics and in real estate  is most commonly seen in US-based leases, it is not  uncommon to also see CPI rent escalations in non-US  leases when those leases are denominated in US Dollars  (e.g. USD-denominated Industrial Leases in Mexico).  Cross-docked  In an industrial cross-docked building, dock doors are  located on opposite sides of the building (typically the  front and rear), which allows for the unloading of goods  from inbound delivery trucks and loading the same goods  directly onto outbound trucks. Typically, there is little to no  storage between the dock doors to inhibit the process.  -
26 Glossary of Terms  Crystallization  Also   referred   to   as   a   partnership   crystallization,   a  crystallization is a provision in a real estate joint venture  agreement   where   the   partners   agree   to   adjust   the  ownership   share   in   the   venture   at   some   pre-defined  point in the future. It is most common to value-add and  opportunistic investments, where a large increase in value  is likely to be realized early in the investment.  The purpose of the crystallization is to allow the GP to earn  its promote by way of a resetting of the ownership share  percentages. The concept goes something like this:  At a point in time when the crystallization is to occur, the  partners run the proceeds of a hypothetical sale through  the equity waterfall to calculate the expected distribution  to each partner. Based on that expected distribution, the  ownership share is adjusted to reflect the share of the  distribution each partner would hypothetically receive.  So for instance, imagine a JV where the GP owns 10%  and the LP 90%. At crystallization, the partners assume  a $100 million sale and run those proceeds through the  waterfall model. The model calculates that, based on the  promote structure and terms of the JV agreement, the GP  would be distributed $17 million at sale and the LP would  be distributed $83 million at sale.  The ownership share (i.e. the percentage distributed to  each partner) from that moment forward would be 17% to
27 Glossary of Terms  the GP and 83% to the LP. And no further promote would  be paid to the GP (the promote would be frozen).  Curtailment  A type of prepayment which reduces a mortgage loan's  outstanding principal balance. Curtailment can be done by  either increasing one’s monthly payments or repaying a  lump sum amount, both of which would shorten the loan  maturity period.  D ark Value  The dark value is often analyzed by lenders to more  completely understand risk. It refers to the value of the  property should the main tenant "go dark" or vacate the  property. This is a more crucial risk metric in scenarios  where there is a single tenant in the building.  DCF  See Discounted Cash Flow.  Debt Covenants  Debt covenants are essentially rules written into the loan  documents which govern the behavior of a borrower once  the debt is issued. There are 2 general types of covenants  which   either   permit   (affirmative   covenant)   or   restrict  (negative   covenant)   the   borrower’s   ability   to   perform  certain actions. Should the borrower break a covenant, the  lender typically has the legal right to call back the loan (i.e.,  demand repayment).  -
28 Glossary of Terms  Debt Service Coverage Ratio  A financial metric used in real estate to measure a property’s  ability to cover its debt obligations. The Debt Service  Coverage Ratio (DSCR or DSC) is calculated by dividing the  net operating income by the debt service payment and is  often expressed as a multiple (i.e., a DSCR of 1.20x). The  DSCR is used by banks to determine the maximum loan  amount offered to a borrower and to assess the probability  that a borrower might default on the loan.  Debt Yield  The ratio of Net Operating Income (NOI) to the mortgage  loan amount, expressed as a percentage. The debt yield  is useful to lenders as it represents the lender's return  on cost were it to take ownership of the property. Among  other metrics, lenders use debt yield to determine an  appropriate loan amount.  Debtor  See Mortgagor.  Deed  A legal written document that transfers possession of real  property from one entity to another. Deeds are recorded  at time of sale and when purchasing real estate. It is  important to have a title search done where, among other  things, a title company will review all the public records  to see the chain of title, meaning they will review all the
29 Glossary of Terms  previous deeds recorded in connection with a property  and if there were any breaks or gaps.  Common types of deeds: General Warranty Deed, Special  Warranty Deed (Limited Warranty Deed), Quitclaim Deed,  Bargain and Sale Deed, Grant Deed  Deed in Lieu of Foreclosure  The voluntary transfer of a title deed by the borrower to  the lender in order to satisfy a defaulting loan (thereby  avoiding foreclosure proceedings). Also referred to as  "giving back the keys" or "jingle mail."  Deed of Trust  A   Deed   of   Trust   is   an   agreement   between   a   lender  (mortgagee)   and   borrower   (mortgagor)   whereby   the  mortgaged property is conveyed to a third neutral party  (trustee), usually a title company, to be used as collateral  while there is an outstanding mortgage. The mortgagor  still holds equitable title, while the trustee holds legal title.  Defeasance  The   process   of   releasing   a   borrower   from   its   debt  obligation (mortgage loan) and substituting the lien on the  property with acceptable replacement collateral (typically  treasury bonds). This replacement collateral is expected  to generate a comparable substitute cash flow, which  would otherwise be required on the existing debt were it  not prepaid.  -
30 Glossary of Terms  Delaware Statutory Trust  A distinct legal entity used by real estate investors seeking  to defer their capital gains taxes through the use of a  1031 tax deferred exchange. The primary advantage of  the DST is the trust’s ability to obtain favorable financing  terms compared to other ownership structures (such  as “Tenants in Common”) because the lender views the  entity as only one borrower.  Design Architect  Design architect role is to create the design concepts  of   a   building   within   the   parameters   created   by   the  site,   environment,   budget   and   other   factors.   While  they create the vision and refine the project down to  specificity, the design architect does not prepare the  construction   documents   or   put   their   name   on   and  certify the Construction Documents, nor do they provide  construction administration.  Design Development  The   period   following   schematic   design   whereby   all  design team consultants work together to further refine  the project details. In this phase, the design team begins  to select systems and materials and looks carefully at  the coordination of all the components. The team will  start to develop construction details and produce more  refined graphical representations of the project. Typical  items produced during this phase are detailed plans,
31 Glossary of Terms  sections, and elevations; schedules; and MEP specs. The  architect may produce material boards showing various  finishes, materials and colors that will be utilized in the  development.   The   structural   engineers,   among   other  things, get specific with laying out and sizing structural  components. The MEP engineers go into more details  with equipment sizing and layouts. Many other design  consultants are also contributing and working together  with the architect and the owner in preparation of moving  to into the Construction Documents phase.  Development Spread  The difference, denoted in basis points, between the  market cap rate and the yield-on-cost. The Development  Spread measures the "development pop," or value added by  taking on the construction and lease-up risk. The greater  the development spread, the more likely a development  project will be deemed financially feasible.  Think of it in these terms. A real estate investor has the  option to either a) acquire a fully built and stabilized asset  at some market cap rate or b) construct and lease-up a  brand-new property at some yield-on-cost. In order to  make the latter worthwhile, a benefit commensurate with  the risk must be gained, otherwise there is no incentive  to take on the development risk. One way the developer  and its capital partners measure the potential benefit is by  looking at the difference in yield between the two options,  or the Development Spread.  -
32 Glossary of Terms  Development Yield  A metric used in real estate development, Development  Yield is calculated as the project's net operating income  (or sometimes cash flow from operations) at stabilization  divided by the total project cost. Development Yield is also  referred to as a project's Yield-on-Cost.  Direct Capitalization  A valuation method common to real estate where the value  of an income-producing property is calculated by taking  its stabilized net operating income and divided that by a  market capitalization rate. Direct Capitalization (or "direct  cap") analysis assumes that the income and expenses  used in the calculation are perpetual.  Value of Income-Producing Real Estate = Stabilized Net  Operating Income ÷ Market Capitalization Rate  Discount Rate  The rate at which future cash flows are discounted. We  discount the value of money that is expected to be earned  further out in the future because it is less certain that we  will receive it. So, a dollar earned is worth less and less the  further out in the future we expect to earn it. The decrease  in value is determined by the discount rate we apply over  the hold period. The discounted values in each period  are then added together to create a present value of an  asset in a discounted cash flow (DCF) model. In real estate  valuation models, the discount rate can be interpreted as
33 Glossary of Terms  the Cap Rate plus expected NOI growth, representing the  income and growth components of the total required rate  of return, respectively.  Discounted Cash Flow  An investment analysis tool used regularly by real estate  professionals to make buy, sell, hold, and development  investment decisions. The discounted cash flow (DCF) is  a process by which the real estate professional forecasts  the future cash flows of an investment (rents, expenses,  CapEx, debt service, sale price, etc.), and then discounts  those cash flows to the present to arrive at time value of  money return metrics such as internal rate of return and  net present value.  The estimated cash flows from the DCF can also be used  to calculate other risk and return metrics such as debt  service coverage ratio, breakeven occupancy, debt yield,  cash-on-cash return, equity multiple, etc., as well as to  perform other analyses such as sensitivity analysis.  Draw  A periodic disbursement from the lender to the borrower  from   the   construction   loan   proceeds   to   cover   costs  incurred   during   the   development   process.   Common  costs include materials, contractors or subcontractors,  or any other vendor invoices in a given period during the  development process. Typically, draws are monthly.  -
34 Glossary of Terms  Draw Schedule  The construction draw schedule details how construction  loan proceeds are anticipated to be used/disbursed over  the loan period, specifically for what purpose and at what  point in the development project. Construction loans are  not immediately advanced when the loan closes. Instead,  the lender will require a detailed property budget and agree  to advance funds as certain milestones or completion  percentages are achieved for the project, which becomes  the draw schedule.  DSC  Debt Service Coverage. See Debt Service Coverage Ratio.  DSCR  See Debt Service Coverage Ratio.  DST  See Delaware Statutory Trust.  Duration  See Mortgage Loan Duration.  E arnest Money Deposit  An initial deposit paid by a property buyer as a  show of good faith to the seller. The money is typically  held in escrow by a title company, lawyer, or any escrow  agent agreed upon between the buyer and seller, until
35 Glossary of Terms  the   transaction   closes   and   all   suspensive   conditions  have been fulfilled, following which the earnest money is  used to offset the initial purchase price paid by the buyer.  However, if the seller defaults and the deal falls through  then the deposit is returned to the buyer.  Earn-Out  A   provision   within   a   loan   agreement   that   allows   the  borrower   to   receive   additional   funds   from   the   lender  upon completion of certain events (such as receiving  a Certificate of Occupancy or surpassing pre-defined  operating   performance   thresholds).   Earn-outs   are  structured using holdback agreements.  Easement  An easement gives an individual or entity the legal right to  use or access the property owned by some other individual  or entity. Common instances for easements grant public  access for roads or access to utility companies to install  or maintain gas and power lines or other cables running  through the property.  Economic Vacancy  The difference between the gross potential rent at a  property and the actual rent collected. An example of this  would be an apartment complex with a 2-week preparation  period for new tenants and a 50% annual tenant turnover.  Assuming the property was 100% occupied (or a physical  vacancy of 0%), there would still be an economic vacancy  -
36 Glossary of Terms  of 1.92% (2/52 weeks x 50%) whereby the property owner  would only receive 98.08% of his annual cash flow.  Effective Gross Revenue  Also   referred   to   as   Effective   Gross   Income,   EGR,   or  EGI. Effective Gross Revenue is the sum of total Rental  Revenue and total Other Income, less any adjustment for  general vacancy and credit loss.  Effective Gross Revenue = Total Rental Revenue + Total  Other Income - General Vacancy  EGR  See Effective Gross Revenue.  Elevation  An architectural drawing that depicts an object in two  dimensions and from a front, side, or rear vantage point  EMx  Common abbreviation for Equity Multiple.  Entitlement Process  The process through which a real estate developer or  landowner   seeks   the   right   to   develop   (or   redevelop)  property with government approvals for zoning, density,  design, use, and occupancy permits. Upon securing all  necessary entitlements from the applicable jurisdiction(s),  the real estate developer is thus entitled to build what was  proposed and approved.
37 Glossary of Terms  Environmental Site Assessment  The Environmental Site Assessment (ESA), also known as  a Phase I ESA, researches the current and historical uses  of a property and identifies any subsequent environmental  impacts of which an investor would want to be aware.  The ESA will look at the site's and adjacent sites' current  and   historical   uses,   impacts   on   soil   or   groundwater,  compliance with all regulatory databases, especially as  it relates to hazardous material that may be stored on  the site through under- or above-ground storage tanks  (USTs and ASTs) or that may exist otherwise. The ESA will  commonly also include testing for asbestos, lead-based  paint, mold, lead in drinking water, and radon. Investors  will assess the risk and may require further remedies  to issues appearing on the ESA before closing and may  require a Phase II ESA to provide further testing at the site.  Particular concerns to investors on the ESA would be the  past or current existence of dry cleaners, gas stations,  auto repair shops and various manufacturing sites that  may impact the property.  Equitable Title  Equitable title and legal title are like two parts to a complete  title. Equitable title gives an entity beneficial interest in the  property or the full use and enjoyment of the property.  Legal title provides enforceable legal ownership in court.  Legal title is commonly used as collateral when there is  debt on a property.  -
38 Glossary of Terms  When a loan is secured through a mortgage, either the  borrower maintains legal title and the lender places a  mortgage lien on the property (lien theory states) or the  lender takes legal title, while the borrower has equitable  title (title theory states). If the borrower is in default with  a mortgage the lender has to go through the courts to  foreclose. When the loan is secured through a deed of  trust, legal title is given to a neutral third party, or trustee,  and the lender can usually foreclose on the property  without going to court.  Equity Multiple  A return metric which shows how much an investor  earned on his or her invested capital. The equity multiple  (EMx) is calculated by dividing the sum of all capital  inflows (capital distributions) by the sum of all capital  outflows (capital contributions). While the equity multiple  does not account for the time value of money, it does  describe the total cash returned to the investor and is thus  often utilized alongside the internal rate of return in real  estate investment analysis.  The Equity Multiple is typically used in conjunction with  other return metrics such as Internal Rate of Return,  Cash-on-Cash Return, Free and Clear Return, and Average  Rate of Return, among others. The equity multiple can be  calculated before and after taxes and on an unlevered  (without debt) or on a levered (with debt) basis.
39 Glossary of Terms  ESA  See Environmental Site Assessment.  Estoppel  See Tenant Estoppel Certificate.  European-style Waterfall  A common method for distributing investment cash flow  between two or more partners. A European-style waterfall  refers to a form of equity waterfall where no promote  (i.e., carried interest) is paid to the sponsor (i.e., general  partner) until the limited partner has received a full return  of capital and earned a preferred return. Distributable cash  flow during operations and distributable cash flow at a  capital event are largely treated the same.  While referred to as European-style, this form of real estate  partnership waterfall is common worldwide, including in  the United States. It is often preferred by limited partners as  it reduces the probability that promote distributions made  to the GP must be clawed back at a later due date. It is most  common to partnerships with institutional partners.  Expansion Rights  The legal right given by a landlord to a tenant to occupy  additional   leasable   area   in   a   building.   These   rights  constrain the landlord’s ability to lease the building and are  thus typically only seen when tenants have a high degree  of negotiation leverage.  -
40 Glossary of Terms  Expense Stop  A mechanism in a lease whereby there is a fixed amount  of operating expense that the landlord will pay for each  year; above that, the tenant is responsible to pay. Thus, the  landlord is responsible to pay for all operating expenses  below the Expense Stop, while the tenant is responsible for  any amount above the Expense Stop.  So, for example, if the Expense Stop is $10 per square  foot and operating expenses in a given year equal $11 per  square foot, the tenant would be responsible to reimburse  the landlord $1 per square foot ($11 - $10).  Expense Stops can take the form of an agreed upon  amount, typically expressed in an amount per square  foot or per square meter or a base year stop. A base year  stop sets the expense stop equal to the actual operating  expenses in the first year of the lease. So, for instance, if  the actual operating expenses in the first year amounted  to $9.50 per square foot, the Expense Stop would be set at  $9.50 per square foot and the tenant would be responsible  to reimburse the landlord for any expenses above $9.50  per square foot in any subsequent year.  F AR  See Floor Area Ratio.  Factory Outlet  A factory outlet center is a retail subtype characterized for
41 Glossary of Terms  having outlet stores owned by manufacturers and retailers  that sell brand-name discounted goods. Anchors for this  subtype include those same manufacturers' and retailers'  outlets   (like   major   apparel   or   footwear   companies).  Factory outlets also serve a large trade area of 25 to 75  miles and average around 250,000 SF and larger in size.  Source: ICSC  FF&E  See Furniture, Fixtures, and Equipment.  FFO  See Funds from Operations.  Fee Simple  Fee   simple   is   a   form   of   ownership   in   real   property.  Specifically, it refers to an owner having full and irrevocable  ownership of the land and any buildings on that land. Fee  simple is the highest form of property ownership, and  most real estate firms own real estate Fee Simple.  Festival Center  See Theme Retail Center.  Financing Memorandum  A request for mortgage financing given to lenders by  commercial real estate borrowers (or their representatives)  for   the   lenders'   investment   consideration.   The  memorandum will typically highlight various terms and  -
42 Glossary of Terms  property specifics such as the borrower's requested loan  terms, a detailed description of the property, the location  and relevant demographic trends, a financial summary,  pictures, comparable sales and/or rentals, and any other  information pertinent to the investment. The Financing  Memorandum is similar to the Offering Memorandum in  format and content, but the offering is for a real estate  debt rather than equity investment.  Fixed Costs  Costs that do not change based on of the property’s level  of occupancy or operation. For example, the landlord’s  monthly insurance premiums will generally remain fixed  regardless of whether the property is 50% or 80% occupied.  In some real estate financial models, the user is given the  option to choose what percentage of a given expense is  fixed with items such as insurance and taxes deserving  100% fixed treatment. This is in contrast to Variable Costs,  which vary with the property's level of operation.  Fixed Price Contract  As it relates to commercial real estate, a fixed price  contract is an agreement where a contractor presents a  quote to the property owner or general contractor, with a  predetermined value that does not change to perform the  work of a contract. In these types of contracts, once the  terms are agreed, the price to fulfill the contract does not  change, regardless of whether the labor or material costs  change throughout the term of the contract.
43 Glossary of Terms  Fixed Rate Debt  Fixed Rate Debt refers to a form of financing where the  interest rate used to calculate the interest due in each  period is constant (i.e., does not change). This is in  contrast to Floating Rate debt, where the interest rate does  change periodically.  The interest rate on a fixed rate loan is set (i.e., locked)  upon origination of the loan. The interest rate is generally  determined   by   taking   some   benchmark   rate   (e.g.,  government bonds) and adding a premium to that rate to  arrive at the fixed annual interest rate.  So for instance, imagine a lender is pricing a 10-yr fixed rate  loan using the 10-yr UST as the benchmark. Furthermore,  imagine the lender quotes the rate at 150 bps over the 10-  yr UST. At the time of the rate lock, the lender will take the  yield on the 10-yr UST at that moment (e.g., 1.60%) and will  add the agreed upon premium (150 bps or 1.50%) to arrive  at the fixed interest rate (1.60% + 1.50% = 3.10%).  Floating Rate Debt  Floating Rate or Variable Rate debt, refers to a form of  financing where the interest rate used to calculate the  interest due in each period changes (i.e., varies or floats)  periodically. The interest rate for a floating rate loan  is generally calculated by taking a regularly changing  benchmark rate (e.g., LIBOR, SOFR, government bonds,  etc.) and adding some premium to that rate to arrive at a  -
44 Glossary of Terms  periodic interest rate. Floating Rate debt is in contrast to  Fixed Rate debt, where the interest rate does not change.  So for instance, imagine that the annual interest rate on  a floating rate loan is calculated each month by taking  the one-month LIBOR and adding 200 bps (i.e., 2.00%) to  arrive at the periodic interest rate. If in month one the one-  month LIBOR was 0.50%, then the annual interest rate  for purposes of calculating the interest due in month one  would be equal to 0.50% + 2.00% = 2.50%.  Further imagine that from month one to month two, the  LIBOR rate increased from 0.50% to 0.60%. For purposes  of calculating interest in month two, the annual interest  rate would increase from 2.50% to 2.60% (0.60% + 2.00%).  Floor Area Ratio  A ratio expressing the relationship between a building’s  floor area (currently built or permitted) and the land  on which the property is located. A higher FAR ratio  indicates a higher density (i.e., the more square feet legally  permissible to be built on the land). For example, if a plot of  land is 10,000 SF and there is a FAR of 6, then the allowable  buildable square footage is 60,000 (10,000 x 6).  Floor Plan  An architectural drawing that depicts a floor layout of a  specific floor or room of a building in two dimensions and  from a top looking down vantage point.
45 Glossary of Terms  Floor Plate  A term commonly used in commercial real estate to refer  to an entire floor of a building. The term is commonly used  when discussing square footage and/or variations in size  and shape of floors within a building.  Example:   There   are   two   different   floor   plates   in   this  building that should accommodate various users. The  bottom third of the tower has 30,000 GSF floor plates that  are rectangular, while the upper two thirds of the building  consist of 20,000 GSF floor plates that are square.  Floor to Ceiling Height  The height between each floor plate in a building measured  from the top of a floor to the surface of the ceiling.  Floor to Floor Height  The height between each floor plate in a building measured  from the top of a floor to the top of the above floor.  Forward Sale  A binding contract between two parties to enter into a  purchase and sale agreement at a fixed future date, the  terms and conditions of which are agreed upon today.  Free and Clear Return  The total unlevered (before debt) pre-tax cash flow of a  real estate project divided by the total capital invested,  generally expressed as a percentage on an annual basis.  -
46 Glossary of Terms  To clarify, the numerator is typically total unlevered pre-tax  cash flow in a given year, while the denominator contains  the total amount of capital invested assuming there is no  debt. While the Free and Clear Return does not account  for taxes and does not take into account the time value  of money, it is a useful screening tool used by investors  when evaluating potential investments. The Free and Clear  Return is the unlevered equivalent of the Cash-on-Cash  Return, and thus sometimes referred to as the Unlevered  Cash-on-Cash Return.  The Free and Clear Return of an investment is especially  important to core investment strategy investors more  interested in stable cash flow than in asset appreciation.  The Free and Clear Return is typically used alongside other  return metrics such as the Equity Multiple and Internal  Rate of Return to appropriately assess an investment.  Front-load  Front-load warehouses have the loading docks on the  front of the building, in relation to the street from which  trucks enter.  Full-Service Gross Lease  A commercial lease where the tenant pays a base rent and  the landlord pays for all operating expenses related to the  tenant's occupancy of the space, such as common area  maintenance, utilities, property insurance, and property  taxes. FSG leases contrast with net leases, wherein the  tenant pays for some or all operating expenses.
47 Glossary of Terms  Full-Service Hotel  A hotel that has a dedicated food and beverage (F&B)  component and offers a full range of amenities and services,  such as concierge service, bars and restaurants, pool and  spa, etc. Full-service hotels have high fixed costs and  appeal to the more affluent casual and business travelers  who are able to afford the higher-than-average room rate.  Funds from Operations  A widely accepted metric used to analyze the performance  of a REIT. Funds from Operations, or FFO, accounts for  the fact that net income on a REIT’s income statement  may be an inaccurate representation of the REIT’s true  performance. As such, net income is adjusted as follows  to arrive at FFO:  FFO = Net Income + Depreciation + Amortization – Gain/  Loss on Sale of Properties  Funds from Operations is comparable to the Cash Flow  from   Operations   metric,   which   is   used   in   analyzing  individual properties.  Furniture, Fixtures, and  Equipment  Furniture, Fixtures, and Equipment (FF&E). In real estate  financial analysis, FF&E is most often found as a line item  in development budgets and operating statements. It can  generally be defined as any easily moveable object not  -
48 Glossary of Terms  permanently affixed to the building. Examples of FF&E  include the following: chairs, beds, couches, curtains,  desks, sconces, tables.  Future Value Factor  Also called the Future Amount of One or FV Factor, the  Future Value Factor is a formula used to calculate the  Future Value of 1 unit today,   n   number of periods into the  future. The FV Factor is equal to (1 +   i) ^ n   where   i   is the rate  (e.g., interest rate or discount rate) and   n   is the number  of periods. So, for example at a 12% interest rate, $1 USD  invested today would be worth (1 + 12%)^5 or $1.7623 USD  five years from now.  One use for the FV Factor in real estate is to estimate  future rent based on today's rent, grown at some growth  rate. So if an apartment unit rents for $1,000 per month  today and rent is expected to grow 3% per year for the next  five years, five years from now that same apartment unit  will be expected to rent for (1+3%)^5 * $1,000 or $1,159.27  per month.  The FV Factor is the inverse of the related PV Factor or  Present Value Factor.  G arden Apartment  Low-rise apartments set on a sizable, landscaped  plot and typically operate under a single management.  They are characterized by being surrounded with lawns,
49 Glossary of Terms  trees, and gardens. These apartment subtypes will most  likely offer access to a backyard patio and are pet friendly.  Source: NCREIF  General Contractor  An entity that oversees the execution of a construction  project on behalf of the ownership of a property. The  General Contractor manages the day-to-day operations  on site and oversees all the subcontractors.  General Vacancy and Credit  Loss  In real estate underwriting, General Vacancy and Credit  Loss is an adjustment to Gross Potential Income (Rental  Revenue   +   Other   Income)   on   the   pro   forma   income  statement. It is used to factor in likely vacancy loss due to  market conditions and expected credit loss due to tenants'  failure to pay.  General Warranty Deed  Common   in   residential   real   estate   and   not   generally  used in commercial real estate, a general warranty deed  guarantees that the seller has the right to sell the property  and that it is free of any encumbrances such as debt,  liens, or any adverse claims. A general warranty allows the  grantee, or new owner of the property, the ability to sue the  grantor for damages if any such legitimate challenges to  title or unknown encumbrances emerge.  -
50 Glossary of Terms  GMP  See Guaranteed Maximum Price.  Good News Money  Additional funds paid out to the borrower by a mortgage  lender   upon   the   occurrence   of   certain   “good   news”  events, such as the owner concluding a lease agreement  with a major tenant in the building or reaching some pre-  determined net operating income. Such additional funds,  commonly referred to as an "earn-out," are added to the  outstanding loan balance and are generally subject to the  same terms as the underlying loan.  Grantee  In a real estate sale transaction, a grantee is the buyer of  the property. In a sale transaction, the grantor conveys, or  transfers, title through a deed to the grantee.  Grantor  In a real estate sale transaction, a grantor is the seller of  the property. In a sale transaction, the grantor conveys, or  transfers, title through a deed to the grantee.  Gross Absorption  Gross absorption is measured as the total amount of space  (or number of units for residential) leased in a given period  divided by the total amount of space (or number of units)  in a defined market. Gross absorption can be a misleading  metric because it doesn't take into account vacancies. To
51 Glossary of Terms  get a more complete picture of the strength or weakness  of market leasing, one should look to the net absorption  metric. To elaborate, imagine if a market with a total of 100  units had leased 10 units. The gross absorption rate would  be 10%. However, what if in that same period, one of two  scenarios happened. In scenario 1, 10 units vacated, but in  scenario 2, 0 units vacated. If there were zero units that were  vacated, this would indicate a strong market absorption, but  if there were 10 units that vacated, this may indicate that the  market is stagnant. We capture this issue of vacated units in  the net absorption metric thus it is a more comprehensive  metric for understanding a market's current condition.  Gross Asset Value  A measure used to describe the market value of a property.  The value includes debt and equity positions but excludes  any acquisition/closing costs.  Ground Lease  A lease structure where a real estate investor rents the land  (i.e., ground) only. In the case of a ground lease, generally  one party owns the land (a fee simple interest) while a  separate   party   owns   the   improvements   (a   leasehold  interest). In most cases, the owner of the land leases the  land to the owner of the improvements for an extended  period of time (20 - 100 years).  When the ground lease predates a mortgage on the  leasehold interest, the ground lease generally has priority  -
52 Glossary of Terms  over that mortgage unless the ground lease is expressly  subordinated to the mortgage. Thus, a ground lease is  often thought of and valued as a form of financing.  The ground lease is a common vehicle used by generational  families to generate cash flow from well-located parcels  of land without having to operate the property nor give  up ownership in the property. For instance, the Martinez  family owns a 10-acre parcel at the corner of main and  main. They lease the parcel for $100,000 per year to  Jennifer's Bakery for 50 years, who in turn builds a bakery  on the property. Jennifer's Bakery operates a bakery on  the property for the next 50 years and, at the end of the  ground lease term, returns the land together with any  improvements on the land to the Martinez Family.  Guarantee of Non-Recourse  Carveouts  Also referred to as a "Bad-Boy Guarantee," a Guarantee of  Non-Recourse Carveouts is a guarantee provided by an  individual or entity which covers the extent of the recourse  liability arising from any non-recourse carveout. These  are commonly required when an individual entity is not  guaranteeing the loan.  Guaranteed Maximum Price  A type of cost plus contract whereby the contractor  is   reimbursed   for   all   construction   related   costs,   plus  a fixed fee. The agreed upon costs and fee are capped,
53 Glossary of Terms  transferring the risk of cost overruns to the contractor,  whilst any savings resulting from cost underruns may  either be a point of negotiation between the general  contractor and the owner or completely realized by the  project owner.  H angout and Hangout Risk  The hangout is the expected outstanding loan  balance owed the lender by the borrower at the end of the  lease term of a key tenant, while the hangout risk is the  risk to the lender associated with the borrower's ability  or inability to repay said loan. An especially important  consideration in investments with a single tenant, the  hangout risk is determined by comparing the hangout  to the dark value (value of the vacant real estate) to  determine whether the borrower will be able to repay the  loan. This risk can be quantified by dividing the hangout  by the dark value.  For example, a borrower secures a $100,000, 20-year loan  against a property leased to WalBlues for 15 years. At the  end of year 15, the outstanding loan balance is expected  to be $50,000. The lender projects the value of the vacant  property in year 15 to be $50,000. Therefore, the hangout  risk is high, as represented by the expected LTV at the end  of the lease term ($50,000 ÷ $50,000 = 100%), since the  borrower will need to re-lease the property before year 20  to be able to refinance the property to repay the lender.  -
54 Glossary of Terms  Hard Costs  Any   development   costs   associated   with   the   physical  construction   of   a   building.   These   costs   are   easy   to  quantify and typically include items such as raw materials,  labor, and interior finish, etc. Hard costs are also referred  to as Direct Costs.  Hectare  A unit of land that equals 10,000 square meters or 107,639  square feet.  Hold/Sell Analysis  The process of analyzing whether to continue holding  (i.e., owning) income-producing real estate, or whether  to sell the real estate and reinvest the proceeds in an  alternative   opportunity.   Many   professional   real   estate  asset and portfolio managers perform this analysis on a  regular basis, so as to optimize the overall returns of their  respective portfolios and beat their target benchmarks.  Real   estate   professionals   use   analysis   tools   such   as  real estate discounted cash flow models to calculate the  return on the   hold scenario   and then compare that to the  projected returns on the   sell and reinvest scenario   to make  a more informed investment decision.  Holdback  A holdback is a portion of commercial loan proceeds that  are retained by the lender until certain objectives have
55 Glossary of Terms  been met. These objectives may include conditions like a  certain percentage of development has been completed  or a certain NOI is achieved at the property. Holdback  proceeds are generally held in an escrow account.  Hotel "Flag"  An informal term used to denote an operating brand within  the hotel industry. Marriott, Hilton, and Best Western are  examples of "Flags" used by owners of hotel properties.  HUD Home  A   residential   property   owned   by   the   Department   of  Housing and Development (HUD). If a foreclosed home  was acquired using proceeds from an FHA-insured loan,  the FHA will pay out the lender for the balance due and  ownership of the property will transfer to HUD.  I n arrears  To pay for services after the work has been done.  Income Approach  One of three appraisal methods used in commercial real  estate to estimate the value of income-producing property.  The Income Approach includes two methods. The first  method, the Income Capitalization Method, is a process  whereby one year's Net Operating Income is divided by a  market Capitalization Rate to arrive at an estimated value.  The second method uses the Discounted Cash Flow to  calculate the present value of a real estate investment's  -
56 Glossary of Terms  forecasted future income and reversion value. The Income  Approach is the most common appraisal method used to  evaluate income-producing real estate.  Inducement  See Concessions.  Industrial Flex  An industrial building that can typically be adapted for a  wide variety of uses. This may include office space, as well  as retail, distribution, or a variety of industrial uses.  In-place Rent  See also Contract Rent.   In-place Rent is the rent being  charged/collected on existing leases at a property. In  contrast to Market Rent, in-place rent is not based on  market conditions but rather is based on the lease contract  signed between the landlord and tenant.  Institutional Investor  An institutional real estate investor is a large company  or organization with substantial capital and an allocation  to real estate investments. Pension funds, life insurance  companies, investment banks, sovereign wealth funds,  and endowments are examples of institutional investors.  Most often, the institutional investor act as the limited  partner   in   a   real   estate   partnership,   providing   equity  capital while relying on the general partner (sponsor) for  geographic and property-type expertise. Given their size
57 Glossary of Terms  and ready access to the capital markets, institutional  investors tend to have a lower cost of capital than their  non-institutional counterparts, allowing them to pay more  for real estate assets.  Interest Reserve  A reserve account held by the lender of a construction loan  and used by the borrower to cover loan interest shortfalls  during construction and lease-up. The interest reserve is  funded via the initial proceeds from the construction loan  and is calculated based either on expected future draws or  by means of a simple average estimate of the outstanding  loan balance throughout the loan period.  Internal Rate of Return  The discount rate at which the net present value of an  investment is equal to zero. The internal rate of return is a  time value of money metric, representing the true annual  rate of earnings on an investment. In real estate practice,  IRR is used together with other return metrics such as  equity multiple, cash-on-cash return, and average rate  of return to compare real estate investments and make  investment decisions.  Unlevered IRR or unleveraged IRR is the internal rate of  return of a string of cash flows without financing.  Levered IRR or leveraged IRR is the internal rate of return  of a string of cash flows with financing included.  -
58 Glossary of Terms  The Internal Rate of Return is arrived at by using the same  formula used to calculate net present value   (NPV) , but by  setting net present value to zero and solving for discount  rate   r . In Excel, IRR can be calculated by using the IRR(),  XIRR(), or MIRR() functions.  IRR  See Internal Rate of Return.  J ingle Mail  A colloquialism in real estate, Jingle Mail is the  letter a lender would receive containing a borrower’s keys  (making a “jingle” sound as the keys bounced around). This  situation typically occurs when there is a sharp decrease  in the market value of a property, such as occurred during  the 2008 subprime mortgage crisis. Jingle Mail generally  refers to a Deed in Lieu of Foreclosure and in many parts  of the world is also called "giving back the keys."  Joint Tenancy  An ownership of real property by two or more people  whereby if one person dies, the ownership held by the  deceased passes on to the surviving owners.  K ey Money  Money provided by a hotel operator or hotel "flag"  to a hotel owner in order to secure a hotel management  or franchise agreement at a hotel property. In highly
59 Glossary of Terms  competitive hotel markets, where operators are looking to  get a foothold or expand their brand, operators may use  key money as one negotiating tool and will compensate  the hotel owner as part of the agreement.  Key money is especially relevant in hotel development  projects where risks are particularly high and lenders may  be much more conservative for this risky asset class.  Key Performance Indicator  A metric used to measure the performance of a property.  Real estate specific KPI’s include metrics such as Cap  Rate, LTV, Debt Yield, Cash on Cash Return, Internal Rate  of Return, and Equity Multiple, among others.  L and Assemblage  A   tactic   employed   in   land   acquisition,   where   a  real estate professional acquires two or more adjacent  parcels, combining them into one. Land assemblage can  be   a   time-consuming,   complicated   process,   with   the  complexity increasing exponentially depending on the  number of parcels and landowners. However, the complex  process is worth it when the value of the whole (the  combined parcels) is greater than the sum of the value of  the parts (the individual parcels).  For example, a residential real estate developer acquires  four 50-acre parcels, from four different owners, each  worth $100,000, for a total cost of $400,000 (4 x $100,000  -
60 Glossary of Terms  = $400,000). After assembling the 200 acres (50 acres x  4), the new single parcel is worth $500,000.  Land Use Restriction  Agreements  An   agreement   between   a   property   owner   and   the  government   whereby   the   property   owner   agrees   to  limit the use of its property in exchange for some pre-  determined tax credits or bond financings. A Land Use  Restriction Agreement (LURA) is most common to low  income housing tax credits (LIHTC) where the property  owner agrees to limit the rent it may charge at the property  and in so doing becomes eligible for certain tax credits.  The LURA stays with the land, meaning any restrictions  defined in the agreement continue on even after a sale.  These restrictions generally last for a pre-defined period  of time, usually 15 to 30 years depending on the agreement  and jurisdiction.  Lease Depth  The distance measured between the building window line  and the building core wall’s exterior side.  Leasehold Interest  In real estate, a leasehold interest refers to a structure  where an individual or entity (lessee) leases the land  (i.e., ground lease) from the fee simple owner (lessor) of  the land for an extended period of time. The lessee of a
61 Glossary of Terms  leasehold estate will generally own the improvements  on the land and use the land and improvements as if the  lessee were the owner of the land. During the term of the  ground lease, the lessee will pay rent to the lessor for  use of the land. At the end of the ground lease term, the  lessee must return use of the land, and any improvements  thereon, to the landowner.  Real estate investors are willing to lease the land when  the cash flow from the improvements alone, after paying  the ground lease payment, make the investment feasible.  This is common with high-quality locations where the  leasehold owner wants the location but the land owner is  only willing to lease the land rather than sell it.  Many office buildings in gateway cities (e.g. New York)  are leasehold estates where the owner of the building  leases the land underneath the building from a separate  individual or entity for an extended period of time. One  such example is the World Trade Center in New York City.  The land is owned by the Port Authority of New York and  New Jersey but controlled by a separate group under a  99-year ground lease originally executed in July 2001.  Leasing Commissions  A commission, generally paid by the landlord to a leasing  broker, for procuring a tenant for a rentable piece of real  estate. Leasing Commissions are typically paid at the  start of the lease and are commonly paid both when a  -
62 Glossary of Terms  new tenant occupies a space and when an existing tenant  renews its lease. While Leasing Commission rates vary by  market, they're generally quoted as a percentage of the  total rent over the term of the lease (e.g., 6%).  Legal Title  Equitable title and legal title are like two parts to a complete  title. Equitable title gives an entity beneficial interest in the  property for the full use and enjoyment of the property.  Legal title provides enforceable legal ownership in court.  Legal title is commonly used as collateral when there is  debt on a property.  When a loan is secured through a mortgage, either the  borrower maintains legal title and the lender places a  mortgage lien on the property (lien theory states) or the  lender takes legal title, while the borrower has equitable  title (title theory states). If the borrower is in default, with  a mortgage the lender has to go through the courts to  foreclose. When the loan is secured through a deed of  trust, legal title is given to a neutral third party, or trustee,  and the borrower can usually foreclose on the property  without going to court.  Lessee  Someone who leases or rents space.  Someone who pays rent to the owner or lessor in order to  occupy a space.
63 Glossary of Terms  Lessor  An entity that owns and leases a property to a tenant or  lessee.  Letter of Intent  A non-binding legal document used to communicate the  high-level business terms in a real estate transaction. The  letter of intent, or LOI, is most often used by the buyer  at the early stages of a real estate purchase. The buyer  sends a "letter" to the seller conveying the terms under  which the buyer would proceed with the acquisition of a  seller's property.  Terms   outlined   in   a   letter   of   intent   generally   include  purchase price, amount and treatment of earnest money,  timing of closing, the condition of the property upon  closing, and other high-level business terms the seller  and buyer must agree to before drafting the lengthier, and  binding, purchase and sale agreement (PSA).  Levered Cash Flow  The   net   cash   inflows   and   outflows   of   a   real   estate  investment taking into account cash flows related to  financing. Levered cash flows generally consist of total  investment costs, loan fundings and payoffs, net operating  cash   flows   after   financing,   and   asset   reversion   cash  flows (i.e., net proceeds from sale). In real estate financial  analysis, the levered cash flow line is used to calculate the  -
64 Glossary of Terms  levered internal rate of return and levered equity multiple  of a prospective real estate investment.  Lien Theory States  Lien theory states are those states in which the title  remains with the borrower in a lending scenario. The  lender   instead   holds   a   lien   on   the   property   via   the  mortgage, which gives it a right of possession until the  borrower pays off the loan balance.  Life Plan Community  See Continuing Care Retirement Communities (CCRCs).  Lifestyle Retail Center  Lifestyle retail centers provide dining and entertainment  in outdoor settings with upscale national-chain specialty  stores. They tend to be over 300,000 SF in size, with a trade  area of 8 to 12 miles. Large format upscale specialty is the  most common type of anchor tenant for this retail subtype.  Source: ICSC  Limited Partner  A limited partner is a passive (in terms of management  responsibility)   partner   in   a   real   estate   investment.   In  a   typical   real   estate   partnership,   the   general   partner  (sponsor or GP) manages the day-to-day aspects of the  investment strategy and brings local and property type  expertise. The limited partner (or partners) typically brings
65 Glossary of Terms  the majority of the equity capital and only weighs in on  critical decisions.  Limited-Service Hotel  A hotel that provides only the basic amenities and services  such as a swimming pool and/or business center. Limited-  service hotels (such as Fairfield Inn or Homewood Suites)  operate on smaller budgets, enabling them to pass on the  cost savings to travelers via lower room rates.  Limited Warranty Deed  See Special Warranty Deed.  Linear Mortgage  A mortgage loan where the amount of principal due in  each period is static. As a result, the loan payment due in  each period decreases over time as the amount of interest  due decreases and the principal due stays the same. The  loan balance likewise decreases in a straight-line (i.e.,  linear) fashion over the loan term.  Loan Amortization  The repayment of the principal balance of a loan through  periodic payments over time. In an amortizing loan, a  portion of the loan payment each period is used to pay  the interest owed for that period with the balance used  to pay down principal on the loan. Although the periodic  loan payments remain constant throughout the loan term,  the   portion   allocated   to   principal   reduction   increases  -
66 Glossary of Terms  over time as the principal balance is reduced. Thus, less  interest is owed in each period.  Loan to Cost  In real estate, Loan to Cost (LTC) is the ratio of the  outstanding loan balance to total project cost. The higher  the LTC, the less cash equity the borrower has invested  in the property (i.e., less "skin in the game") and therefore  the higher the risk that the borrower will default on the  loan. Real estate lenders most often use this metric in  assessing the risk of lending on a real estate development  project,   but   LTC   is   also   considered   on   acquisition  loans   to   compare   the   proposed   loan   amount   to   the  acquisition price.  Loan to Cost (LTC) = Loan Amount / Total Project Cost  Loan to Value  In real estate, Loan to Value (LTV) is the ratio of the  outstanding loan balance to the value of the property  expressed as a percentage. The higher the LTV, the higher  the risk is that the borrower will be able to repay the loan at  maturity. Higher LTV's usually correlate with higher interest  rates as well to account for the additional risk. Real estate  lenders use this important metric, together with debt yield  and debt service coverage ratio, among others, to assess  the risk of a loan and arrive at an appropriate loan amount.  Loan to Value (LTV) = Loan Amount / Property Value
67 Glossary of Terms  Load Factor  Rentable area / usable area = load factor  Example: If a building has 50,000 sf of rentable area and  40,000 sf of usable area, the building has a load factor of  1.25 (50,000/40,000).  Loan Workout  A resolution agreed upon between the lender and the  borrower to restructure the terms of the loan before  foreclosure of the property. Workouts typically involve  negotiations regarding the minimum monthly payment  and/or the amortization period. In some cases, a loan  workout results in the borrower "giving back the keys"  rather   than   the   lender   formally   foreclosing   on   the  property.  Lock Out  A common clause in a CRE loan agreement. This is  the period of time after disbursement that a borrower  is not allowed to prepay the loan. Lenders will many  times enforce a lock out period, along with prepayment  penalties after the lock out period, as a way to ensure they  are receiving earnings off the money they are responsible  for disbursing.  Lock Out Period  See Lock Out.  -
68 Glossary of Terms  Loss-to-Lease  The difference between in-place rent (or contract rent)  and market rent. The loss-to-lease concept is most often  used in multifamily underwriting. Because contractual  lease rates lag the actual market, the loss-to-lease metric  acts to help the real estate professional forecast coming  changes to actual income going forward.  LTC  See Loan to Cost.  LTV  See Loan to Value.  Lump Sum Contract  A contract whereby the total price of an entire construction  project is negotiated and agreed to between the General  Contractor (GC) and the Owner, regardless of what the  actual price ends up being at the end of the project. This  type of contract shifts all risks (future price increases) and  rewards (potential future cost savings) onto the contractor.  To further clarify, if the actual costs of construction are  above the lump sum, the contractor bears the cost; if the  actual costs end up being below the lump sum, the GC will  still get paid the lump sum and earn the difference. This  type of contract is common when there is a clearly defined  scope of work and costs can be reasonably estimated or if  the GC has a reason to believe they can keep costs under  control and under budget.
69 Glossary of Terms  LURA  See Land Use Restriction Agreements.  M ake Ready Costs  Most   often   seen   on   multifamily   operating  statements, 'Make Ready' costs refer to minor repairs and  maintenance work to an apartment unit in order to ensure  that the unit is in a suitable condition before being placed  on the market and leased to a subsequent tenant. Activities  included in this process range from cleaning services and  painting to countertop resurfacing and trash removal.  Market Rent  The rent a typical tenant would pay for a comparable unit  or suite in the same or comparable market. A real estate  owner will often compare the average contract rental rate  at their property to the market rent in the area to determine  whether there is potential to increase rents at the real  estate owner's property.  Master Tenant  A tenant who leases directly from the property owner and  subsequently subleases all (or a portion of) the property  to other tenants.  MEP  MEP is a common acronym for mechanical, electrical,  plumbing and simply refers to these respective systems  of a building collectively.  -
70 Glossary of Terms  MEP Engineer  The mechanical, electrical, and plumbing systems expert.  These engineers lead the design and implementation of  these   systems   throughout   the   construction   process,  serving   as   the   central   resource   during   the   building's  development. Systems also under an MEP engineer's  purview   may   also   include   fire   suppression   systems,  sustainable building designs, and automation systems.  Metropolitan Statistical Area  A Metropolitan Statistical Area, or MSA, is an area that  usually includes a major city at its core and the surrounding  towns and suburbs. It is not a legal area that is governed  by any one entity, but an area to which numerous towns  and a city, or cities, have a lot of inter-connectivity.  Mezzanine Debt  In real estate, mezzanine debt, or   mezz , is a subordinate  loan on real property secured by an interest in the entity  that owns the real property rather than on the real property  itself. In the event of default, because the entity rather than  the real estate acts as collateral, the mezzanine lender is  able to foreclose on the entity via a UCC foreclosure - a  faster and less expensive process than a foreclosure on  the real estate would be. In the capital stack, mezzanine  debt falls between mortgage debt and equity. It carries a  higher interest rate than more senior debt due to its riskier  place in the capital stack.
71 Glossary of Terms  Mill  A "mill" is 1/1,000 of a dollar, or $1 for each $1,000 of  assessed value. A mill is used to calculate a property's  millage rate.  Millage Rate  The millage rate is used to calculate the property tax  on   real   property.   This   is   calculated   in   increments   of  $1,000, with each mill representing 0.1% of the property’s  taxed assessed value, which is often lower than market  value. For example, if a property's tax assessed value is  $20,000,000 and has a millage rate of 20, then its property  tax would equate to $400,000 ($20 for every $1,000 of  value). In many jurisdictions, the millage rate is converted  to a percentage (mill rate ÷ 1000) and quoted as a   property  tax rate   for ease of calculation.  MHC  See Manufactured Housing Community.  MOIC  Abbreviation for Multiple on Invested Capital.   See Equity  Multiple for the definition.  Monte Carlo Method  A technique used in Stochastic (i.e. Probabilistic) Analysis  whereby   the   professional   performs   simulations   that  result in a range of outcomes due to the uncertain nature  of the inputs.  -
72 Glossary of Terms  This   method   involves   repeatedly   running   simulations  hundreds or thousands of times, recording the outcomes of  each simulation, and then aggregating those outcomes to  understand the mean (i.e. the average outcome), standard  deviation   (i.e.   the   dispersion   of   outcomes),   minimum  value, and maximum value of all of the outcomes.  Mortgage Loan Duration  The number of periods (most commonly denoted in years)  that must pass for half of the time-weighted present value  of the debt service payments to be paid. Duration is an  important measure of interest rate risk.  The longer the Duration, the greater exposure the loan has  to interest rate risk. To hedge against that risk, lenders will  often pair the mortgage loan asset with a liability of similar  Duration and size.  Mortgage Constant  A rate calculated by dividing the periodic loan payment by  the initial loan amount. The Mortgage (or Loan) Constant is  often used as a tool to efficiently calculate loan payments  and   is   represented   as   a   percentage.   For   instance,   a  mortgage loan with an annual payment of $16,000 and an  initial loan balance of $250,000 has a Mortgage Constant  of 6.40%. In an interest only loan, this metric would be  the same as the interest rate where with an amortizing  loan this would be different because there are principal  payments included as well.
73 Glossary of Terms  Lenders can use this to compare different loans and how  quickly they get back their loan amount through regular  payments.  Mortgagee  The lender or entity that lends money to a borrower  (mortgagor) to buy real estate.  Mortgagor  The borrower or entity receiving the loan to buy real  estate.  MSA  See Metropolitan Statistical Area.  Multiple on Invested Capital  Another term used for Equity Multiple.   See Equity Multiple  for the definition.  Muni Bond  See Municipal Bond  Municipal Bond  A municipal bond, colloquially referred to as a muni  bond, is a debt instrument originated by a state or local  government for financing public projects. These bonds  are generally exempt from federal as well as state and  local taxes. As a result, investors demand a lower yield  relative to bonds that are not tax-exempt.  -
74 Glossary of Terms  Municipal bond yields are often used in real estate analysis  to determine the appropriate discount rate for valuing a  property tax abatement.  N egative Covenant  A   type   of   restrictive   property   covenant   that  prohibits   the   landowner   from   certain   acts.   This   type  of   covenant   also   runs   with   the   land,   remaining   with  any subsequent landowners. An example of a negative  covenant may prohibit the landowner from expanding  the physical building and increasing its square footage  beyond a certain limit.  Neighborhood Center  Neighborhood retail centers are also convenience-related  and typically have just one anchor, usually grocery or drug  stores. A neighborhood center is around 75,000 SF with a  trade area of 3 miles.  Source: ICSC  NER  See Net Effective Rent  Net Absorption  In the case of for lease property, net absorption is the rate  at which rentable area is leased up over a period of time  in a given market. The net absorption figure considers  construction of new space, demolition of existing space
75 Glossary of Terms  and any additional vacancies during that period. It is often  used to forecast demand and supply trends and is thus  a key indicator for both property owners and developers,  significantly influencing their pricing and timing decisions.  Net Effective Rent  The gross amount of rent payable by a tenant less any costs  incurred by the landlord in order to lease the space to the  tenant. Such costs typically include leasing commissions,  tenant improvements and/or rent-free periods. So, for  instance, imagine a tenant agrees to pay $720,000 in  total rent over a three-year term and is offered $50,000 in  concessions (e.g., tenant improvement allowance and free  rent) and a $20,000 commission due to a leasing broker.  The net effective rent is $720,000 - ($50,000 + $20,000) =  $650,000 with a net effective monthly rent of $650,000 ÷  36 = $18,055.55/month (vs. $20,000/month gross).  Net Lease  A commercial lease where the tenant pays base rent  plus pays for its pro rata share of some or all operating  expenses related to the tenant's occupancy of the space.  Types of net leases include single net, double net, triple  net, and absolute triple net. Expenses may be billed  directly to the tenant, or the expenses may be paid by  the landlord and reimbursed by the tenant. Net leases  contrast with Gross Leases, wherein the landlord pays for  all operating expenses.  -
76 Glossary of Terms  Single Net (N): a net lease where the tenant pays base  rent plus pays for one of the operating expense items  such as common area maintenance (CAM), insurance, or  property taxes  Double Net (NN): a net lease where the tenant pays base  rent plus pays for property insurance and property taxes  Triple Net (NNN): a net lease where the tenant pays base  rent plus pays for all operating expenses  Absolute Triple Net: a type of triple net lease where the  tenant pays base rent, all operating expenses, plus pays  a portion or all of the capital expenditures to maintain the  condition property  Net Operating Income  The net income from a property, in a given period, after  deducting   operating   expenses   but   before   deducting  capital expenditures, debt service, and taxes. To calculate  Net   Operating   Income,   the   real   estate   professional  subtracts   operating   expenses   from   effective   gross  income (Effective Gross Income - Operating Expenses  = Net Operating Income). Net Operating Income (NOI)  is arguably the most important income metric, as it is  widely used to estimate the value of the property using  the Income Capitalization Method.  NOI  See Net Operating Income.
77 Glossary of Terms  Non-disclosure State  A state in the United States where the sales price of a sold  property is not publicly available. In such situations, the  sales value is estimated (for tax assessment and other  purposes) using other metrics which are publicly available,  such as the loan amount granted by the bank, or the  mortgage transfer taxes paid.  Non-recourse Carveouts  Referred to colloquially as "Bad Boy Carveouts", a list of  actions or guarantees that may result in the borrower  or guarantor taking on partial or full recourse liability for  the loan. These actions initially were limited in scope to  “bad acts” such as theft or voluntary bankruptcy by the  borrower. However, over time the list of non-recourse  carveouts has grown to include acts which one may not  consider wrongful (failing to permit property inspections  or not paying real estate taxes).  O ccupancy Cost  The total cost incurred by a tenant in order to  occupy space in a building. These costs are all stipulated  in the lease agreement and include items such as base  rent, tenant reimbursement expenses, percentage rent,  parking charges, etc.  Occupancy Cost Percentage  Also referred to as the tenant's Health Ratio, Occupancy  Cost   Percentage   represents   a   tenant’s   total   annual  -
78 Glossary of Terms  occupancy cost as a percentage of total annual tenant  sales at the property. This metric is used by investors in  retail real estate to better assess the financial health of  the tenant at a given location. The lower the occupancy  cost, the higher the probability the tenant will remain at  the property long-term. The higher the occupancy cost,  the more likely a tenant will vacate.  A healthy occupancy cost depends on the tenant type.  While a healthy Occupancy Cost Percentage for a grocery  tenant might be 2.5%, a similarly healthy Occupancy Cost  Percentage for an apparel tenant might be 12%+. The  variance in what is considered healthy largely depends on  the profit margin of the products sold by the tenant. The  higher the margin, the higher the occupancy cost a tenant  can support.  OCIP  See Owner Controlled Insurance Program.  Offering Memorandum  A   presentation   and   marketing   document   given   to  investors for their investment consideration summarizing  a   potential   deal.   The   memorandum   will   typically  highlight various aspects of the investment, such as a  detailed description of the property, the location and  relevant   demographic   trends,   a   financial   summary,  pictures, comparable sales and/or rentals, and any other  information pertinent to the transaction. The Offering
79 Glossary of Terms  Memorandum is similar to the Financing Memorandum  in format and content, but the offering is for a real estate  equity rather than debt investment.  OM  See Offering Memorandum.  Operating Expense Ratio  The   ratio   of   Operating   Expenses   to   Effective   Gross  Revenue. The Operating Expense ratio is a metric used in  real estate underwriting to understand what proportion of  gross revenue is used to cover the expenses necessary to  operate the property. The amount leftover, after paying the  operating expenses, is the Net Operating Income.  Operating Expense Ratio = Operating Expenses / Effective  Gross Revenue  Operating Supplies and  Equipment  OS&E is a common initialism used in the hotel industry  for   Operating   Supplies   and   Equipment.   OS&E   refers  to an enormous range of items that a hotel will need  to operate. OS&E does not include items like stoves  or washing machines or any major items that require  installation. Examples of OS&E include the following:  dishware, cutlery, trashcans, trays, cleaning supplies,  staff uniforms, office supplies, irons and ironing boards,  luggage carts, and vacuums.  -
80 Glossary of Terms  Opportunistic  A real estate investment strategy categorized by high  risk and high returns. Opportunistic real estate strategies  typically involve a high degree of uncertainty and more  volatility   in   cash   flow   and   therefore   require   greater  subject   matter   expertise.   These   strategies   will   often  employ more leverage and subject the investors to a  greater probability of losing their capital. Opportunistic  real estate investments are most often either ground-up  developments or the redevelopment of properties to a  higher and better use.  Opportunity Zones  Opportunity Zones are special economic development  zones created as part of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of  2017. Individuals and companies that invest in qualified  opportunity   zones   enjoy   special   tax   treatment   to  encourage investment in these distressed areas within the  United States. The purpose of the creation of these zones,  and the corresponding tax benefits of doing so, is meant  to spur job growth and economic activity in these areas.  Individuals and companies that invest in opportunity  zones can choose to temporarily defer tax on capital gains  if those gains are invested in a qualified opportunity zone.  For more information on the benefits and qualification  for   this   program,   view   the   IRS'   Opportunity   Zones  Facts Sheet.
81 Glossary of Terms  Option  See Option Agreement.  Option Agreement  An Option Agreement, or Option, is a formal agreement  between a property owner and a potential buyer or lessee,  in which the potential buyer or lessee usually pays the  owner for the exclusive right to a negotiation in good faith  or to allow the potential buyer or lessee to confirm an  outside circumstance such as getting an approval from  a governing authority, over a certain time period for the  purchase or lease of the property.  OS&E  See Operating Supplies and Equipment.  Other Income  In real estate underwriting, Other Income refers to any  revenue source not otherwise included in other income line  items. Other income may include any number of revenue  generators, from application fees to amenities fees. In  the basic real estate pro forma setup, Other Income is  combined with Total Rental Revenue to arrive at a Gross  Potential Revenue line.  Owner Controlled Insurance  Program  OCIP and CCIP are broad and all-encompassing insurance  policies that usually cover, at a minimum, general liability  -
82 Glossary of Terms  insurance, worker’s compensation, and excess liability  insurance for all contractors and subcontractors on a  construction project. An OCIP is sponsored and held by  the owner, in contrast to a CCIP, which is sponsored and  held by the contractor. The sponsor holds and is directly  responsible for securing the appropriate and required  insurance coverage.  Owner's Affidavit  A legal document signed by the seller of a particular  property and provided to the buyer and title company that  provides proof of ownership of said property. It provides  factual information with regards to the legal status as it  pertains to bankruptcy, liens, agreements, or judgments  against the property.  P aid in arrears  See In arrears.  Pari Passu  A Latin term used to describe the equal treatment of  investors, returns or securities. In real estate, the term  is commonly used in waterfall distribution models to  reference the pro-rata distribution of profits based on  each investor’s initial equity contribution percentage. The  term is likewise commonly used to describe the cash flow  from and to two or more lenders holding an equal position  in the capital stack of a real estate investment.
83 Glossary of Terms  Parking Income  In   real   estate   underwriting,   Parking   Income   refers   to  revenue   derived   from   renting   parking   spaces   at   the  property.   In   standard   apartment,   retail,   office,   and  industrial underwriting, Parking Income is generally an  Other Income item given that the income is secondary  to the core rental revenue. In urban locations, however,  where parking is scarce, the Parking Income earned may  be substantial.  PCA  See Property Condition Report.  PCR  See Property Condition Report.  Permanent Financing  A long-term mortgage loan typically secured by a fully  stabilized and performing real estate asset. A Permanent  Loan (a.k.a. Permanent Financing) often includes a fixed  interest rate with a longer loan term (7+ years). The  permanent loan may or may not include an interest-only  payment period for part or all of the loan term. These  loans almost universally come with a penalty (e.g., yield  maintenance, defeasance, % penalty, etc.) for prepaying  the loan before maturity, and many include a lock-out  period early in the loan term during which the borrower is  forbidden from prepaying the loan.  -
84 Glossary of Terms  Permanent Loan  See Permanent Financing.  Phase I ESA  See Environmental Site Assessment.  Phase II (ESA)  When   the   preliminary   ESA   exposes   recognized  environmental   conditions   (RECs),   buyers   will   often  require a Phase II ESA to provide a broader assessment  of the property. A Phase II ESA includes a subsurface  investigation, which tests soil, soil gas, and groundwater  to reveal the source of any RECs. Of particular concern is  the presence of petroleum products and other hazardous  materials that may be on the site.  Power Retail Center  A   power   center   is   a   retail   subtype   generally   around  450,000 SF and larger, where you will find category-  dominant anchors, including discount department stores,  wholesale   clubs,   and   off-price   stores.   Among   their  most common type of anchors are home improvement,  discount   department,   warehouse   club   and   off-price  retailers. Power centers serve a trade area of 5 to 10 miles.  Source: ICSC  Preferred Return  A concept common to real estate partnership structures,  preferred return refers to the preference given to a certain
85 Glossary of Terms  class   of   equity   partners   when   distributing   available  cash flow. The preferred return is generally calculated  as either a percentage return on contributed capital or  a given multiple on contributed capital and must first be  paid before the sponsor / general partner has a right to  promoted interest.  Premier Suburb  The most prolific, popular or expensive suburb within a  city or town.  Prepayment Penalty  A fee charged by a lender for agreeing to allow a borrower  to pay off a loan prior to the end of the contractual loan  period. A prepayment penalty, or prepayment fee, is meant  to cover the cost to the lender of a loan paid off prior to the  agreed upon date, especially as it relates to the lender's  reinvestment cost and interest rate risk.  Common forms of prepayment penalty in commercial  real estate include a percentage of the outstanding loan  balance, Defeasance, and Yield Maintenance.  Present Value  The lump-sum value today (time zero) of a string of  future cash flows discounted back to today at a specified  discount rate. In real estate, the Present Value of a real  estate investment is the price that an investor would be  willing to pay today for a string of future real estate cash  flows to achieve a given target return (discount rate). In  -
86 Glossary of Terms  order to calculate Present Value, a discounted cash flow  statement must be built forecasting the future net cash  flows of a real estate investment.  Net Present Value is the Present Value of investment  inflows (i.e., positive cash flows) less the present value of  investment outflows (i.e., negative cash flows). In most  cases, this means calculating the present value of all  future cash flows and subtracting the amount paid for the  investment in time zero.  So, if the Present Value of an investment is $1,000,000  and the investor must pay $750,000 to acquire that  investment, the Net Present Value would equal $250,000  ($1,000,000 - $750,000).  In Excel, the Present Value is best calculated using the NPV()  function, not including the value in time zero in the selected  range. NPV is determined by calculating the Present Value  then subtracting the amount invested in time zero.  Present Value Factor  Also called the Present Value of One or PV Factor, the  Present Value Factor is a formula used to calculate the  Present Value of 1 unit   n   number of periods into the future.  The PV Factor is equal to 1 ÷ (1 + i )^ n   where   i   is the rate (e.g.  interest rate or discount rate) and   n   is the number of periods.  So, for example, at a 12% discount rate, $1 USD received five  years from now is equal to 1 ÷ (1 + 12%)^5 or $0.5674 USD  today. The PV Factor can be used to calculate the Present
87 Glossary of Terms  Value of a future stream of cash flows by multiplying each  period's cash flow by the given PV Factor for that year and  then summing the resulting values.  The PV Factor is the inverse of the related FV Factor or  Future Value Factor.  Project Buyout  The Project Buyout is the time when the owner of a  development project selects the General Contractor (GC)  who then, either together with the project owner or alone,  goes through the process of selecting and hiring all the  subcontractors (subs) and pricing the project. A generic  buyout process may look like the following:  Project owner selects the GC. The GC creates a list of  subs for each trade and puts together Bid Packages or  Requests for Proposals. These packages will include all  relevant information about the project (drawings, specs,  trade specific info., etc.), ask the subs to evaluate and  respond with a price and all relevant information about  themselves (proof of insurance, references, resumes, etc.).  Based on the subs' responses and rate quotes, the GC will  interview, select, and negotiate and sign a contract with  the winning sub for each trade.  Promote  A financial interest provided to the sponsor (investment  manager) as an incentive to maximize performance. This  is typically an outsized share of the profits, payable once  -
88 Glossary of Terms  the investors have received back their entire initial capital  contributions   and   achieved   certain   profit   thresholds  (i.e., preferred return). Promote is also referred to as the  promoted interest or carried interest.  Promoted Interest  See Promote.  Property Condition  Assessment  See Property Condition Report.  Property Condition Report  Also referred to as a Property Condition Assessment  (PCA), the Property Condition Report (PCR) assesses  the physical condition through a thorough inspection. It  evaluates all of the improvements and various systems  of   each   building   on   a   property.   Buyers   or   mortgage  lenders may require items on the PCR be remedied before  completing the transaction or funding loan proceeds.  PSA  See Purchase and Sale Agreement.  Purchase and Sale Agreement  A legally binding contract between a buyer and seller that  outlines the terms and conditions of selling a property.
89 Glossary of Terms  Q uitclaim Deed  A Quitclaim Deed is a type of deed that transfers  all interest the seller has or may have. However, there  are no warranties of title and no guarantees against  any encumbrances. This type of deed provides no legal  recourse for the new owner.  R atio Utility Billing System  A method of calculating a resident’s utility bill based  on specific factors such as occupancy rate or apartment  square footage and then billing the tenant for their share  of utility use. It is often used when the installation of sub  meters is not financially feasible (due to the large up  front capital investment) or economically feasible (due  to a poorly designed utility configuration). The practice is  becoming increasingly common as landlords seek ways  to increase revenue and limit their cost inflation risk.  Real Estate Investment Trust  A real estate mutual fund allowed by income tax laws to  avoid the corporate income tax. It allows investors, large  and small, to participate in large real estate ventures without  double taxation. A REIT sells shares of ownership and  must invest in real estate or mortgage loans. Furthermore,  a REIT must meet certain other requirements under the  law: it must have a minimum number of shareholders, a  widely dispersed ownership, and certain income tests. In  the United States, a Real Estate Investment Trust must  -
90 Glossary of Terms  distribute 95% of its income to shareholders, which is  not taxable at the corporate level but is taxable at the  individual shareholder level.  REIT shares are either publicly or privately traded. Given  that REITs are special entities tasked entirely (or almost  entirely) with operating real estate, unique metrics have  been created such as FFO and AFFO to help investors  properly analyze the performance of these companies.  Real Estate Private Equity  Real Estate Private Equity, or REPE, is a term used to  describe an individual or firm making direct investments in  real estate using private capital, rather than public capital.  This form of investment in real estate is generally thought  of as high risk, high return given that the invested capital is  most often the first   dollar   in, and the last   dollar   out. A firm  that raises private capital to make direct investments in  real estate is referred to as a real estate private equity firm.  Examples of large U.S. real estate private equity firms  include Blackstone Group, Starwood Capital Group, and  Carlyle Group.  Rear-load  Rear-load warehouses have the loading docks on the rear  of the building, in relation to the street from which trucks  enter. In other words, as a truck enters the property, it  must drive to the rear of the building to access the  loading docks.
91 Glossary of Terms  Recourse  In   real   estate,   recourse   is   the   responsibility   of   the  guarantor(s) of a mortgage loan to repay the loan in the  event of borrower default. Similarly, a   recourse mortgage  loan   is a loan in which the mortgage lender is protected  against loss by one or more   guarantors .  For example, the single-asset entity 555 Main St, LLC,  acting   as   borrower,   borrows   from   Mortgage   Lender  ABC $10 million to develop an apartment community.  John Jones, acting as Principal Guarantor, personally  guarantees the loan. In the event borrower defaults on  the mortgage loan and should the foreclosure sale fail  to satisfy the unpaid principal balance plus penalties,  Mortgage Lender ABC has recourse to other assets owned  by John Jones.  Regional Mall  These retail centers are connected by a common walkway,  with parking generally surrounding the center's perimeter.  Stores will include tenants with a full range of general  merchandise, shopping services, and fashion offerings.  Average regional mall sizes are over 500,000 SF, with a  general trade area of 5 to 15 miles. Historically, anchors for  this subtype have included full-line or junior department  stores, mass merchants, discount department stores, and  fashion apparel stores. However, this continues to evolve.  Source: ICSC  -
92 Glossary of Terms  Reinforced Concrete  This refers to concrete in which wire mesh or steel bars  are embedded into the concrete to increase its strength.  In commercial real estate development and construction,  reinforced concrete and steel framing add to the building's  tensile strength, which allow for higher and more complex  construction. Buildings with this construction generally  cost more than comparable stick-frame buildings, and  thus typically merit a higher valuation in comparison.  REIT  See Real Estate Investment Trust.  Renewal Option  A clause contained in a lease agreement giving the tenant  the right to renew or extend their lease agreement. The  option clause usually contains various predefined terms  that both parties initially agree upon, such as a reversion  to a market-related rental rate.  Rent Control  Rent Control includes laws that dictates the amount of  rent a property owner/landlord can charge a tenant.  Rent Roll  The rent roll is a list of tenants in an income producing real  estate asset and includes the property owner's reflection  of all the rental income derived from the tenants at a  specific time (usually at the end of the month). The rent
93 Glossary of Terms  roll often includes other information related to the tenants,  such as a description of the space being rented, lease  start/expiry dates and any security deposits held.  Rentable Area  Rentable area is the area within a building for which a  landlord can charge rent. This includes the tenants' private  and/or exclusive use spaces, as well as the building's  common areas.  Tenants usually pay rent for their exclusive space plus  a share of the common area. A tenant's rentable area  calculation is commonly calculated by multiplying their  usable space by the building's load factor.  Usable Area + Common Area = Rentable Area  REPE  See Real Estate Private Equity.  Replacement Cost  This is the cost to build a brand new, similar, and competing  project in the same location as an existing building.  When   underwriting   a   property,   it   is   important   to  understand its value relative to the replacement cost. If a  brand new and almost identical building can   feasibly   be  built for cheaper on a per square foot basis in a nearby  location than what it would cost to buy the project being  evaluated, then the replacement cost is lower than the  -
94 Glossary of Terms  cost to purchase and the investor should consider passing  on the property and/or developing the new project.  Residual Land Value Analysis  Residual land value analysis is a method for calculating  the value of development land. This is done by subtracting  from   the   total   perceived   value   of   a   development,   all  costs associated with the development, including profit  but excluding the cost of the land. The amount left over  is the residual land value, or the amount the developer  is able to pay for the land given the assumed value of  the development, the assumed project costs, and the  developer’s desired profit.  Residual Pro Forma  Residual pro forma is the pro forma used to evaluate the  residual/terminal value of a property. The residual pro forma  seeks to forecast the net operating income a subsequent  buyer might use in valuing the subject property. This figure  often includes either the trailing twelve months (TTM)  or the next twelve months from the sale date but can be  altered to reflect a stabilized NOI at the time of sale.  Retention  Retention is a withholding of funds owed in order to  increase   the   probability   that   the   project   will   be   fully  completed   to   the   standards   initially   promised   by   the  contractor/subcontractor. An example of this would be an  owner retaining 10% of the funds owed to the contractor
95 Glossary of Terms  until the project is complete. This minimizes the risk of  the contractor moving on to another job by ensuring  incentives are well-aligned.  Revenue Per Available Room  Referred to in commercial real estate as RevPAR, Revenue  Per Available Room is a metric used in hotel underwriting  to calculate the amount of revenue each available room  generates in a given period.  RevPAR is calculated by either 1) dividing the total actual  revenue generated by the number of available rooms, or by  2) multiplying the hotel's average daily room rate (ADR) by  the hotel's occupancy rate. The RevPAR differs from the  ADR in that it accounts for any unoccupied rooms.  RevPAR = Total Actual Revenue ÷ Available Rooms  or  RevPAR = ADR x Occupancy Rate  RevPAR  See Revenue Per Available Room.  Right of First Refusal  Although they can be numerous in iterations, a Right of  First Refusal, or ROFR (pronounced Rōfer), is a contractual  clause that enables a third party to step in and purchase  and/or lease a property based on what was negotiated  between the Owner and a potential buyer/lessee.  -
96 Glossary of Terms  As an example, let's say a tenant leases a building, and  in that lease there is a ROFR clause to purchase the  property if the owner decides to sell. In a more traditional  ROFR scenario, if the Owner puts the building up for sale  and negotiates with a potential buyer, upon coming to an  agreement, the Owner would be legally obligated to take  the negotiated terms and price to the tenant and offer  the tenant the opportunity to step in and purchase the  property first.  ROFR  See Right of First Refusal.  Rollover Loan  See Construction-Perm Loan.  RV Park or Resort  RV Parks consist of land organized into various lots or  parcels for rent that accommodate recreational vehicles  (RVs), either with or without services on the sites. Services  typically include water, electric, and sewer. RV Parks can  be set up to accommodate multiple types of end users,  such as those using RVs for vacations to longer-term  tenants using park model homes.  RUBS  See Ratio Utility Billing System.
97 Glossary of Terms  S ale Leaseback  A transaction in commercial real estate where, upon  completion of a sale, the seller immediately leases back  the property from the new owner (i.e., buyer). The lease  is generally NNN and long-term and converts the seller/  lessee from an owner to a tenant. This type of transaction  typically occurs where the business, financing, accounting,  or tax benefits of leasing outweigh the benefits of owning.  Some consider this mechanism a   hybrid   debt product,  whereby the seller turned lessee decreases its actual debt  load while freeing up capital.  Schematic Design  The first formal stage of the design phase after the  conceptual design period, where initial design concepts  are re-evaluated and many early-stage design documents  are produced such as early iterations of site plans, floor  plans, sections, and elevations. This phase is used to verify  that the project is feasible and buildable and conforms to  both the owner’s and design team’s vision.  Typical   items   studied   during   this   phase   are   further  function and form analyses, structural feasibility, MEP  space layouts, vertical transportation, ingress, egress,  generic exterior aesthetics, and floor layouts.  Seller's Title Affidavit  See Owner's Affidavit.  -
98 Glossary of Terms  Short Sale  The sale of the property for less than the outstanding  debt balance owed to all lienholders (typically senior  and mezzanine debt providers). The property will fall  into foreclosure if all parties do not reach a consensus  agreement to sell.  Soft Costs  Any indirect development costs (i.e., not labor or materials).  These costs range from architecture and engineering  fees to project management and developer fees and can  affect hard costs significantly (e.g., an architect’s efficient  building   design   may   reduce   the   need   for   structured  parking hard costs). Soft Costs are also referred to as  Indirect Costs.  Sources and Uses  A schedule overview that details from where capital for a  real estate project is sourced (sources) and how capital  is deployed (uses). The   sources   side includes items such  as loan proceeds and investor equity contributions, while  the   uses   side includes items such as purchase price/  construction costs and acquisition costs. Both sides must  always balance.  Special Servicer  The designated party responsible for handling situations  wherein the borrower defaults. A special servicer has
99 Glossary of Terms  the   authority   to   structure   loan   workouts   or   institute  foreclosure   proceedings.   This   is   in   contrast   with   a  standard mortgage servicer who has limited legal power  and is merely responsible for collecting rental payments  from the borrower.  Special Warranty Deed  A special warranty deed will allow for recourse against the  seller (grantor) if any issues (encumbrances or challenges  to title) come after the transfer of the property to the buyer  (grantee), which were created during the time that the seller  owned the property. The special warranty deed will not  protect the grantee against any issues or challenges to title  that come up from the period prior to the seller's ownership.  Specific Performance  Specific performance is a legal concept that requires a  party to abide by the terms of an agreement.  A simple example can be if a PSA is executed, and the  seller subsequently decides not to sell the land. The buyer  can sue for Specific Performance and a court can enforce  the terms of the contract requiring the seller to sell based  on the terms in the executed PSA.  Specifications Manual  A   project   manual   that   details   the   various   products,  construction materials and methods to be used in the  project development.  -
100 Glossary of Terms  Sponsor  The partner that "sponsors" a real estate investment. This  individual or company is responsible for finding, acquiring  and managing the investment. The sponsor generally  brings market and property type expertise and plays the  primary management role, while third party investors  (limited   partners)   typically   take   on   a   more   passive  investment role. The Sponsor is also referred to as the  General Partner (GP).  Springing Recourse  A form of loan guarantee only enforceable by a lender  when certain default or credit events occur (e.g., if a  borrower violates operating covenants, does not meet net  worth requirements, files for voluntary bankruptcy, etc.). In  springing recourse, or springing liability, when such adverse  events   occur,   the   borrower’s   guarantor   (i.e.,   Principal)  becomes   partially   or   fully   liable   for   loan   obligations  regardless of whether the loan is non-recourse or not.  Stabilization  Stabilization refers to a point in time when a property  reaches   its   market   potential   in   terms   of   occupancy,  income, and expenses. This is commonly referenced in  terms of Stabilized NOI, or the NOI once the property has  reached that market potential.  In the case of value-add and opportunistic investments,  stabilization occurs at some future point when the value-
101 Glossary of Terms  add   or   opportunistic   strategy   has   been   successfully  executed. In the case of a core investment, the in-place  NOI is assumed to be stabilized.  Stabilized Pro Forma  Stabilized Pro Forma refers to an income statement,  wherein it is assumed that the projected income and  expenses are underwritten at their market potential and  are perpetual. One result of this analysis is the stabilized  net operating income, which is an important input to direct  cap valuation.  When building a stabilized pro forma, it is essential to  assume that all income and expenses that go into the pro  forma are stabilized (i.e. operating at market occupancy,  rent, and expenses) and perpetual (i.e. the current state  of income/expense will persist for the hold period and  thereafter).  Stacking Plan  A visual representation of a building, similar to an elevation  drawing, which shows the breakdown of space occupied  by tenants on each individual floor. The breakdown may  extend to include other details of the tenant such as their  company name, occupied square footage, lease expiration  date or rental rate.  Stick Framing  This simply refers to a construction method using wood  materials for framing the structure. This method typically  -
102 Glossary of Terms  uses 2x4 or 2x6 dimensional lumber spaced 16" or 24"  apart. Stick-built construction is generally allowed for  structures up to five stories.  Stochastic Analysis  Also   referred   to   as   Probabilistic   Analysis,   Stochastic  Analysis involves adding uncertainty to some or all of the  inputs to the analysis such that the outcomes are likewise  uncertain. In real estate financial modeling, this form of  analysis allows the professional to better understand the  range of outcomes (i.e. risk) possible in an investment.  The   process   of   performing   Stochastic   Analysis   first  requires   assigning   probabilities   to   inputs   and   then  simulating scenarios over and over again to capture the  various outcomes that result from the uncertain inputs.  Stochastic   Analysis   is   often   paired   with   a   technique  known as the Monte Carlo method. This method involves  repeatedly running simulations hundreds or thousands  of times, recording the outcomes of each simulation,  and then aggregating those outcomes to understand the  mean (i.e., the expected outcome), standard deviation (i.e.,  the variation and range of outcomes), minimum value, and  maximum value of all of the outcomes.  Storage Income  In real estate underwriting, Storage Income refers to  income derived from renting storage space to tenants.  In apartment, office, retail, and industrial underwriting,
103 Glossary of Terms  Storage Income is generally an Other Income item given  that the storage space is typically leased to existing  tenants at the property.  Strip or Convenience Center  This retail subtype is characterized by having a row of  stores, with on-site parking often found in the front of  the stores. Open canopies may be used to connect store  fronts of the tenants at the center. Average size may be  10,000 - 15,000 SF and larger, with a trade area of less  than 1 mile. A typical anchor for these types of centers  may be convenience stores, such as a mini mart.  Source: ICSC  Structured Parking  Any   above-grade   or   below-grade,   ramp-accessible  structure capable of accommodating vehicle parking. A  multi-level design allows for greater parking densities and  increasing land use efficiency.  Structural Engineer  Structural engineers are a type of civil engineer. A key  task of the structural engineer includes determining and  analyzing the forces of each element in a structure. The  engineer must ensure that all of the structural elements of  a building have the ability to counteract all the loads that  may impact it.  -
104 Glossary of Terms  Subcontractor  A   company   that   specializes   in   a   specific   component  of a project and is hired by the General Contractor and/  or ownership to work on a development project. Some  examples   of   subcontractors   are   plumbing,   electrical,  HVAC, drywall, glazing, insulation, and masonry.  Super-Regional Mall  This retail subtype has a higher variety and assortment of  tenants than regional malls. They have an average trade  area of 5 to 25 miles and average over 1,000,000 SF in  size. Typical anchor types reflect the same as found in  regional malls.  Source: ICSC  Survey  A survey confirms crucial information about the location  and existence of a property through boundary lines and a  legal description. It will include information about physical  improvements on the property, such as utility, parking,  and building information, as well as details on access,  property setbacks, encroachments, easements, or any  other zoning violations that affect the property. Surveys  will also indicate whether a property sits in a flood plain or  other hazardous area. Common survey types include the  following: as-built, boundary, and ALTA (American Land  Title Association). An ALTA survey is the industry standard  for most due diligence requirements.
105 Glossary of Terms  T ax Increment Financing  A   financing   method   used   by   government   to  incentivize urban renewal and development within targeted  areas. When new development occurs in the TIF zone,  the property’s incremental taxes (above a fixed baseline  amount) will be allocated to a TIF fund. These funds are  then allocated towards infrastructure improvement and  job creation within the TIF district, which in turn leads to  higher property values and further private investment.  Takeout Loan  A type of permanent financing used to repay the proceeds  owed on existing short-term debt (e.g., a construction  loan). Takeout loans are typically structured with longer  terms, fixed payments and other structures commonly  seen in permanent mortgage loans.  Temporary Certificate of  Occupancy  A certificate of occupancy issued prior to project completion  allowing the tenant or owner occupancy of a space while  construction is still ongoing. A Temporary Certificate of  Occupancy, or TCO, typically expires within a finite time  period, which varies by jurisdiction and property type.  Tenancy by the Entirety  A type of property ownership unique only to married  couples. In all other forms of ownership, when there is  -
106 Glossary of Terms  more than one owner, each owner has a part ownership  in the property. With tenancy by the entirety, each spouse  owns the entirety of the property.  Tenant  See Lessee.  Tenant Estoppel Certificate  A document signed between a landlord and a tenant  verifying certain facts are correct (such as whether or not  a tenant is in good financial standing with the landlord).  Tenant Estoppel Certificates are often required by lenders  when financing a property or by a prospective buyer as  part of their due diligence.  Tenant Health Ratio  See Occupancy Cost Percentage.  Tenant Improvements  A   form   of   inducement   typically   seen   in   office,   retail,  and   industrial   real   estate;   tenant   improvements   (TIs)  are   physical   changes   to   a   tenant's   leased   space   to  accommodate the specific needs of the tenant. TIs may  include building or moving interior walls or partitions,  floor covering, shelves, windows, doors, bathrooms, etc.  The cost and who bears responsibility for the work is a  negotiation between the tenant and the landlord. TIs  are generally quoted as an amount per square foot (or  per square meter). They are most often offered at the  beginning of a newly signed, or newly renewing lease.
107 Glossary of Terms  Tenant Rollover Risk  The risk associated with expiring lease agreements at a  property. This risk includes the possibility of not being  able to re-lease the space should a tenant vacate or,  alternatively, the possibility of signing a lease but on less  favorable terms than the previous lease.  Tenants in Common (TIC)  An ownership structure whereby two or more individuals  may own an equal or unequal, undivided share in a  property. This partnership structure enables lower income  investors the opportunity to purchase more expensive  real estate, which they otherwise may not have been  able to afford individually. However, when mortgaging a  property, the lender will also require that all co-tenants  share joint liability for the loan, thereby increasing the risk  of a TIC structure.  Theme Retail Center  Theme-   and   festival-   retail   centers   generally   have  entertainment as a unifying theme. You will find tourist,  retail,   leisure,   and   service-oriented   offerings.   These  centers are generally located in urban areas, or as part  of mixed-use projects. Restaurants and entertainment  options are common anchor tenants for this retail subtype.  The centers serve a much larger trader area of 25 to 75  miles and average around 150,000 SF and larger in size.  Source: ICSC  -
108 Glossary of Terms  TIC  See Tenants in Common.  TIF  See Tax Increment Financing.  TI's  See Tenant Improvements.  Time Value of Money  The idea that money received today is worth more than the  identical amount of money received in the future. This is  because money received today can earn interest over time  as well as increasing costs of goods and services over  time due to inflation, thus making a dollar more valuable  today than in the future. The time value of money is a core  principle of finance and the foundation of various return  and valuation metrics used in real estate (e.g., PV and IRR).  For example: $100 received today, when grown by 2% per  annum, becomes $110.41 in five years. Thus, $100 received  in five years is worth less than $100 received today.  Title  A document that lists the legal owner of real property, and  which must be transferred in a sale of the property. The  title will reflect the form of ownership, which may be a sole  ownership, joint tenancy, tenancy in common, or others.
109 Glossary of Terms  Title Affidavit  See Owner's Affidavit.  Title Insurance  A form of insurance that protects property owners and/  or lenders against any property loss arising due to legal  defects on the property being transferred (outstanding  liens, encumbrances on the property etc.).  Title Search  A real estate title search will examine any public records  available in an effort to confirm the legal owner, as well  as to determine if there are any liens or claims on the  property by other parties, such as property tax liens or  mechanics liens.  Title Theory States  Title theory states are those states in which the borrower  in a loan on the property does not hold the property's title  during the loan term. Rather than a mortgage, the lender  holds the title through a Deed of Trust. Once the loan is  paid off, the lender, through a Deed of Reconveyance,  removes its interest in the property and transfers title back  to the borrower.  Total RevPAR  Where RevPAR divides total revenue   from room sales  by available rooms in a given period, Total Revenue Per  Available Room (TRevPAR or Total RevPAR) is a metric  -
110 Glossary of Terms  that includes total revenue   from all hotel departments  in   addition   to   room   revenue .   Other   departments   are  typically and formally categorized as F&B, Other Operated  Departments, and Miscellaneous Income.  Trailing Twelve Months  A Training Twelve Months (TTM) value is a reflection of  a property's last 12 months of financial performance.  The TTM report shows actual historical data rather than  forward looking estimates (typically presented by the  broker) in the OM, thereby helping the investor make a  more informed valuation of the property.  Transfer Tax  A charge levied by a state or local government when  property is sold from one individual or entity to another.  Trended Rents  Rental rate figures which are based upon some market  growth projection. Trended rents use historical market data  as an indicator of future growth, in contrast to “untrended  rents” which assume no growth in annual rents.  Real estate discounted cash flow models, which account  for rental growth, generally are capable of calculating the  trended rental rate of an investment at some future date.  TRevPAR  See Total RevPAR.
111 Glossary of Terms  Trophy Asset  A term used in real estate to describe a property that is in  exceptionally high demand by investors. These assets are  usually iconic buildings situated in prime locations with  strong underlying property fundamentals.  Trustee  When debt is placed on a property, a trustee is a third-  party entity that holds legal title to the property until the  borrower fully repays the loan. Requirements to be a trustee  vary by state. Whereas a trustee must be authorized by  certain law to serve in that position in some states, others  have no limitations on who or what entities may serve as  a trustee. Common entities that serve as trustees in real  estate lending scenarios include title companies, banks,  credit unions, and attorneys.  TTM  See Trailing Twelve Months.  U CC Foreclosure  Related to UCC Article 9, this type of foreclosure  generally   occurs   when   there   is   mezzanine   debt  encumbering the property. When a mezzanine borrower  breaches any term or is in default, the mezzanine lender  has the option to foreclose on the borrower's collateral  interest, which is an interest in the entity that owns the  real property rather than on the real property itself. This  -
112 Glossary of Terms  type of foreclosure is a faster and less expensive process  than a foreclosure on real estate would be.   See also  Mezzanine Debt.  Under Water  A situation wherein the outstanding loan balance exceeds  the open market value of the property. This limits the  owner from selling the asset and, unless a loan workout is  negotiated, the property will be foreclosed.  Unlevered Cash Flow  The   net   cash   inflows   and   outflows   of   a   real   estate  investment before taking into account cash flows related  to financing. Unlevered cash flows generally consist of  total investment costs, net operating cash flows before  financing,   and   asset   reversion   cash   flows   (i.e.,   net  proceeds from sale). In real estate financial analysis, the  unlevered cash flow line is used to calculate the unlevered  internal rate of return and unlevered equity multiple of a  prospective real estate investment.  Urban Infill  Repurposing property in an urban environment for new  development. The term implies that the surrounding area  is mostly built up and what is being developed will “fill in”  the gaps. Urban infill usually focuses on repositioning  underutilized buildings and is often part of a community  redevelopment program.
113 Glossary of Terms  Usable Area  Space in a project that is available exclusively to the tenant  for use. This is usually office or retail space over which the  tenant has sole control.  Building common areas are not included in usable square  footage.  V alet Trash  A   trash   collection   service,   most   common   in  multifamily properties, offered by the landlord to remove  trash from residents’ doorsteps and deposit the waste  into   the   dumpster   or compactor area. Residents are  typically charged for the service and in many cases the  service is mandatory.  Value Add  A real estate investment strategy categorized by medium-  risk and medium returns. A Value-Add strategy typically  involves   acquiring   under-performing   assets   with  upside potential and adding value through one or more  repositioning strategies. These strategies may include  property   renovation,   tenant   realignment,   operational  improvements and re-tenanting strategies, among others,  with the goal of boosting net operating income, thus  increasing the value of the property.  Variable Costs  Costs that vary based upon of the property’s level of  -
114 Glossary of Terms  operation   and   performance.   For   example,   property  management fees vary directly based on the property’s  revenue and therefore will likely be higher with greater  occupancy of the building. This is in contrast to Fixed  Costs, which do not vary with the property's level of  operation and performance.  Variable Rate Debt  See Floating Rate Debt.  Vertical Expansion Option  A real option which allows the owner of a development  project to build and complete the project to a certain  height with an option to increase the height of the building  at some future point. The cost of a project when building  with this option is estimated to add a 5-10% premium on  standard construction costs due to implementing building  systems and components that may be excessive for  the current building size. However, this expense may be  offset by the risk reduction benefits associated with the  increased development timing flexibility and potential cost  savings in the future phase of development for having built  a majority of the building in a previous period.  W AL  See Average Life.  WALE  Abbreviation   for   Weighted   Average   Lease   Expiry.   See
115 Glossary of Terms  Weighted Average Lease Term for definition.  Walk Score  A score assigned to a property which measures and  allocates a value from 0 - 100 based on the property's ease  of access to public transport and other nearby amenities.  Walkability  A measure of how amenable an area or property is to  walking. The most popular measure of walkability is the  “Walk Score,” which measures and allocates a score to a  subject property from 0 - 100 based on its ease of access  to public transport and other nearby amenities.  Wall Street Journal Prime Rate  The Wall Street Journal Prime Rate is the interest rate  charged among the largest banks in the United States. The  rate is not linked to the federal funds rate, although there is  typically a 300 basis points (3%) spread between them. The  WSJP rate is widely utilized by lenders as an index against  which other loans are measured, e.g., WSJP + 1.5%.  War Room  In   real   estate,   the   "War   Room"   is   generally   a   virtual  depository   of   vital   investment-related   information  necessary to perform due diligence on a deal. Practically  speaking, the "War Room" is a collection of computer  folders, shared with stakeholders to a deal, which contain  financial information, property reports, maps, statements,  -
116 Glossary of Terms  and other investment-specific information necessary to  transact a real estate investment.  Warehouse  Warehouses are generally one-story buildings with high  ceilings that typically have multiple dock high doors that  can accommodate large trucks for loading and unloading  inventory.   Warehouses may have a small amount of  square footage dedicated as an office component for  support staff, with the larger proportion dedicated to  storage and distribution.  Warm Shell  Any building/rentable area that has been minimally fitted  out with basic services (such as ceilings, lighting, plumbing  and HVAC) and is ready to lease to the tenant. Usually  these “warm shell improvements” -- necessary to convert  the building from a cold shell to a warm shell -- are only  completed following signature of the lease agreement in  order to alleviate the Landlord paying for unnecessary  improvements   that   the   Tenant   may   not   require.   The  transition from a "Cold Shell" to a "Warm Shell" is referred  to as the "Build-out."  WAULT  Abbreviation for Weighted Average Unexpired Lease Term.  See Weighted Average Lease Term for definition.
117 Glossary of Terms  Weighted Average Lease Term  A   metric   in   commercial   real   estate   that   measures  how much contract rent is remaining at the property.  Specifically, the WALT measures the weighted average  remaining contract lease term for all tenants at a property.  Generally rental income is used as the weight in calculating  the weighted average. Weighted Average Lease Term is an  important measurement for analyzing office, retail, and  industrial properties.  The term is synonymous with WAULT (weighted average  unexpired lease term) and WALE (weighted average lease  expiry).  To calculate the weighted average lease term:  1. Multiply the current rent by the remaining lease term for  each of the tenants.  2. Sum the total of results from step 1.  3. Divide the result from step 2 by the sum of current rent  for each of the tenants.  Weighted Average Life  See Average Life.  Wrap Up Insurance  An   insurance   policy   for   larger   construction   projects  that typically covers general liability insurance, worker’s  compensation   and   excess   liability   coverage   over   the  entire   construction   period   for   all   contractors   and  -
118 Glossary of Terms  subcontractors involved in the project. There are two  types of wrap up insurance, namely Owner Controlled  Insurance   Program   (OCIP)   and   Contractor   Controlled  Insurance Program (CCIP).  Y ield Maintenance  A method for calculating prepayment penalty, yield  maintenance considers the difference between prevailing  interest rates and the contractual interest rate of the loan  such that the borrower does not benefit from changes  in interest rates, and the lender is not disadvantaged by  changing interest rates.  Yield Maintenance is generally calculated by finding the  present value of the remaining cash flows due to the  lender, discounted back at an agreed upon discount rate  using an agreed upon benchmark rate (e.g. government  bond yield), less the outstanding loan balance at the time  of prepayment.  Yield-on-Cost  Yield-on-cost, also known as development yield, is the  net operating income (or sometimes cash flow from  operations) at stabilization divided by the total project cost,  whereas the capitalization rate (cap rate) is the stabilized  net operating income (or sometimes cash flow from  operations) divided by the market value of the property.  Yield-on-Cost = Net Operating Income at Stabilization ÷  Project Cost
119 Glossary of Terms  The yield-on-cost serves to help the real estate investor  calculate the difference between the market yield and the  actual yield of an investment. In development, this difference  between market yield (market cap rate) and actual yield  (yield-on-cost) is called the development spread.  Z ero Cash Flow Property  A real estate investment where all excess cash flow  from a property goes to pay down the senior mortgage.  Zero cash flow investments are generally leased to credit-  rated,   single-tenant   NNN   tenants   due   to   their   highly  secure/safe risk profile, and the loan is sized and crafted  such that the debt service equals the lease payments and  the loan term and amortization match the lease term.  Much of the benefit of owning this type of property comes  in the losses, due to depreciation, over the hold period that  offset gains on other investments in an investor's portfolio.  Modeling the taxable losses is essential to understanding  the yield of such an investment.  -
120 Glossary of Terms  Notes
121 Glossary of Terms  -
122 Glossary of Terms
123 Glossary of Terms  -
Want   to   learn  REAL ESTATE   FINANCIAL   MODELING  in   just   weeks,   and   without   all   the   guesswork?  0   MO   DEL   YO UR   OW   N DEA LS   O   LA   ND   THE JO BS   O   G   ET   A N EA RLY PRO MO   TI   O N • •   <   >  ACCELERATOR   CORE CURRICULUM   ~  o , ___   ,,._  Scan   the   QR   code   below   to   learn   about the   A.CRE   Accelerator   . @)   SCAN   ME
